Apple Regulated Substances Specification 
069-0135-M
Revision
ECO #
Approver
Date
Revision Description
M
0040069980
Adrian Liga Gondawijaya
March 21, 2023
See Section 13 for full revision history.

This document contains proprietary information of Apple Inc.
Apple Regulated Substances Specification—069-0135-L  |  May 2021
1. Scope
It’s Apple’s mission to make sure that anyone who assembles, uses, or recycles 
an Apple product can do so safely. We have led the industry in removing many 
harmful substances from our product designs, and we go to great lengths to make 
sure that they stay that way. We are constantly designing our products to be better 
for the environment, and for people. 
This Regulated Substances Specification describes Apple’s global requirements and 
restrictions on the use of certain chemical substances or materials in Apple products, 
accessories, manufacturing processes, and packaging used for shipping products to 
Apple’s end-customers. Restrictions are derived from international laws or 
directives, regulatory agencies, eco-label requirements, environmental standards, 
and Apple policies. Apple’s restrictions may go beyond regulatory requirements in 
order to protect human health and the environment.
This specification is not an exhaustive list of all chemicals of concern. Apple suppliers 
should take action to understand the human health and environmental impacts of 
all chemicals used in the manufacturing process and present in parts and materials 
supplied to Apple. Suppliers should take action to reduce or eliminate the use of 
chemicals of concern listed in this specification as a first step, as well as comply
with all applicable regulations. Suppliers must demonstrate compliance with this 
specification and provide required documentation (including required test data, Full 
Material Disclosure (FMD), and disclosure of reportable substances). Suppliers must 
notify Apple of any changes in formulation of materials or parts.
We hold our suppliers accountable by conducting factory audits and testing materials 
and components at certified laboratories for substances of high concern. Apple 
may verify supplier data and compliance to this specification utilizing our in-house 
laboratory or external third-party certified laboratories.    
Effective Date: This specification takes effect on May 15, 2023. Prior to this date, 
revision L of the Regulated Substances Specification is in effect. 
Questions: Questions regarding the Apple Regulated Substances Specification 
should be directed to Apple at environment@apple.com.
2
Scope  |  Definitions  |  Restricted Substances in Products  |  Reportable Substances and Future Restrictions in Products  |  Notifying Apple of Chemical Phase Out and Reformulation from Suppliers  |  Restrictions in Manufacturing Processes  |  Reportable Substances and 
Future Restrictions in Manufacturing Processes  |  Supplementary Specifications  |  Demonstrating Compliance  |  Waiver Process  |  Full Material Disclosure (FMD)  |  Chemical Safety Disclosure (CSD)  |  Revision History  |  Referenced Documents  |  Appendices
This document contains proprietary information of Apple Inc.
Apple Regulated Substances Specification—069-0135-M |  March 2023

2. Definitions
Alloy: A metallic material, homogeneous on a macroscopic scale, consisting of two 
or more elements so combined that they cannot be readily separated by mechanical 
means.
Apple Policy: Apple restrictions that go beyond regulatory requirements, based on 
best industry practices or toxicological properties. 
Brominated flame retardant: Brominated organic substance that has an inhibitory 
effect on the ignition of combustible organic materials.
CAS: Chemical Abstracts Service registry numbers that identify unique substances. 
Chemical Safety Disclosure (CSD): Initiative that requires suppliers to provide 
information on the chemicals used in Apple manufacturing processes, to report 
practices in place to ensure compliance with occupational health and safety 
regulations and Apple requirements, and to support initiatives to advance the 
adoption of safer, environmentally preferable alternatives. See Section 12 for details.
Coating: Product in liquid, paste, or powder form that, when applied to a substrate, 
forms a layer possessing protective, decorative, and/or other specific properties. 
Metallic plating layers are exempted from coating requirements. 
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF): Process by which packaging material is produced 
with pulp that has been bleached using a chlorine derivative such as chlorine dioxide 
(ClO2), but without the use of elemental chlorine (Cl).
Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals (EDCs): Chemicals that can interfere with the 
endocrine (hormone) system to cause possible adverse effects in humans and wildlife. 
External Materials: Materials that are accessible to a customer under reasonable or 
foreseeable use. 
Final assembly: Manufacturing process involving assembly of a product that is then 
directly sold to Apple customers, retail stores, or distribution channels.
Full Material Disclosure (FMD): Initiative that requires suppliers to provide the entire 
chemical composition of the parts and materials used in Apple products to ensure 
compliance to regulatory requirements, corporate initiatives, and to support assessment 
of the impact to human and environmental health. See Section 11 for details. 
Homogeneous material: One material of uniform composition throughout or 
a material, consisting of a combination of materials, that cannot be disjointed, 
disaggregated, or separated into different materials by mechanical actions such 
as unscrewing, cutting, crushing, grinding, and abrasive processes. The definition 
is consistent with Directive 2011/65/EU on the Restriction of the Use of Certain 
Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS 2). Per this 
document, the following examples illustrate what is and is not a homogeneous material:
• A plastic cover is a homogeneous material if it consists of one type of plastic that is 
not coated with other materials, or has other materials attached to it.
• A cable that consists of metal wires surrounded by nonmetallic insulation materials isn’t 
a homogeneous material because mechanical processes could separate the different 
materials. In this case, restrictions apply to each of the separated materials individually.
• A semiconductor package contains many homogeneous materials that include the 
mold compound, die attach adhesive, die coatings, bonding wires, lead frame, and 
lead frame platings. Restrictions apply to each individual homogeneous material.
• Printed circuit board laminated materials consist of glass cloth, resins, and copper 
foil that are each a homogeneous material. Restrictions apply to each individual 
homogeneous material.
Incidentally present: Present as an unavoidable impurity or unintentional trace 
contaminant.
Intentionally added: Substance deliberately used in the formulation of a material 
or component, where the presence of the substance in the final product provides a 
specific characteristic, appearance, or quality.
Mixture: Solutions composed of two or more substances in which they do not react.
Nanomaterials: A natural, incidental, or manufactured material containing particles, 
in an unbound state or as an aggregate or as an agglomerate; and where, for 
50 percent or more of the particles in the number size distribution, one or more external 
dimensions are in the 1 nm–100 nm size range. In addition, fullerenes, graphene 
flakes, and single-wall carbon nanotubes with one or more external dimensions below 
1 nm should be considered as nanomaterials.
	
	
3
This document contains proprietary information of Apple Inc.
Apple Regulated Substances Specification—069-0135-M |  March 2023
Scope  |  Definitions  |  Restricted Substances in Products  |  Reportable Substances and Future Restrictions in Products  |  Notifying Apple of Chemical Phase Out and Reformulation from Suppliers  |  Restrictions in Manufacturing Processes  |  Reportable Substances and 
Future Restrictions in Manufacturing Processes  |  Supplementary Specifications  |  Demonstrating Compliance  |  Waiver Process  |  Full Material Disclosure (FMD)  |  Chemical Safety Disclosure (CSD)  |  Revision History  |  Referenced Documents  |  Appendices

No intentional use: Substance must not be intentionally added. Proof of compliance 
requires either 1) the substance is not listed in “Section 3 Composition/information 
on ingredients” of submitted Safety Data Sheet (SDS), which meets Globally 
Harmonized System (GHS) cutoff value requirement or 2) chemical manufacturer 
provides self-declaration of no intentional use.
Non-use: Substance must not be intentionally or unintentionally present. Apple 
requires test reports from certified labs as proof of compliance. For all Section 6 
restrictions, the substance must be under the method detection level by using 
Apple specified analytical methods.
Packaging: Packaging materials used to enclose or protect Apple products during 
shipment to the end-customer. Packaging shipped to suppliers or OEMs (e.g., tape 
and reel, trays), and inter- and intra-factory protective packaging that does not 
remain in final product are not covered by the RSS.
Paint: Coatings containing pigments that, when applied to a substrate, form a dry
film with protective, decorative, or special functions. 
Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS): Substances that contain one or 
more perfluoroalkyl moieties, –CnF2n+1.
Personal protective equipment (PPE): Equipment for protecting manufacturing 
employees from exposure to hazardous materials in the workplace specific to the
job function.
ppb: Parts per billion by weight of a substance; equivalent to 0.001 mg/kg or 
0.0000001 percent by weight.
ppm: Parts per million by weight of a substance; equivalent to 1 mg/kg or 
0.0001 percent by weight.
Primer: Surface treatment chemical use