ters 
and refiners participating in a verification of their sourcing practices by an 
independent third-party organization or program recognized by Apple. 
Apple expects each supplier to provide complete and accurate reporting of its due 
diligence efforts for all tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, or cobalt used in Apple Component 
Goods. Apple will audit suppliers’ Conflict Minerals data submissions to ensure 
conformity with Apple requirements. If any supplier becomes aware that it has 
sourced tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, or cobalt that is from the DRC or any adjoining 
country and that directly or indirectly financed or benefited armed groups, in any 
Component Goods incorporated into Apple products, the supplier must immediately 
notify Apple in writing at mineralsreporting@apple.com.
8.4 Apple Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Specification, 
099-22549
This specification sets forth Apple’s requirements for compliance with all 
restrictions, regulations, and reporting requirements for VOC (Volatile Organic 
Compound)-containing materials applicable to Apple products and packaging, and 
related manufacturing processes. Compliance is applicable to the following 
stakeholders: all contract manufacturing partners, suppliers, and vendors, including 
all component, module, or system-level assembly facilities applying VOC-containing 
materials. Apple expects these stakeholders to ensure that materials under the 
scope of this specification used by their suppliers also comply with restrictions, 
regulations, and reporting requirements defined in this specification. 
8.5 Engineering Requirements Specification: PFAS and PFHxA 
Definitions and Substances Lists, 099-39076
This document is the material specification defining chemicals that may be 
considered “Poly- or perfluoro alkyls substances” or PFAS and “Perfluorohexanoic 
acid and its related compounds”, the most comprehensive (though non-exhaustive) 
list of PFAS and PFHxA chemicals, and information that helps material vendors 
provide information to Apple in order to satisfy Apple RSS reporting requirements for 
PFAS. 
	
	
14
This document contains proprietary information of Apple Inc.
Apple Regulated Substances Specification—069-0135-M |  March 2023
Scope  |  Definitions  |  Restricted Substances in Products  |  Reportable Substances and Future Restrictions in Products  |  Notifying Apple of Chemical Phase Out and Reformulation from Suppliers  |  Restrictions in Manufacturing Processes  |  Reportable Substances and 
Future Restrictions in Manufacturing Processes  |  Supplementary Specifications  |  Demonstrating Compliance  |  Waiver Process  |  Full Material Disclosure (FMD)  |  Chemical Safety Disclosure (CSD)  |  Revision History  |  Referenced Documents  |  Appendices

9.  Demonstrating Compliance
In addition to requiring test reports for the substances below, Apple may request analytical test reports demonstrating compliance for any of the substances listed in this 
specification, at the supplier’s expense. Besides the prescribed test methods below, other test methods may be acceptable by Apple if preapproved. 
Apple requires test reports from certified labs as proof of compliance for the following substances in homogeneous materials:
Apple requires test reports from certified labs as proof of non-use for the following manufacturing process chemicals:
Chemical or Chemical Group
Test Results Required for:
Test Method
Arsenic (As)
Glass
Total acid digestion followed by ICP-MS, ICP-OES, ICP-AES
Beryllium
Metal alloys that contain copper and beryllia ceramics
For metals and alloys that contain copper and solder, it is acceptable to submit a 
Certified Mill Test Report (also known as a Mill Test Certificate) in lieu of a test 
report as defined later in this section, if it provides full composition information
US EPA 3050B
US EPA 3052
ICP-AES in addition to ICP-MS 
ICP-OES in addition to ICP-MS 
Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP)
Butyl benzyl phthalate (BBP)
Cadmium (Cd)
Dibutyl phthalate (DBP)
Diisobutyl phthalate (DIBP)
Hexavalent Chromium (Cr6+)
Lead (Pb)
Mercury (Hg)
Polybrominated biphenyl (PBB)
Polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE)
All materials. 
Test reports are not required for PBB, PBDE, DEHP, BBP, DBP, and DiBP in metals, 
glass, or ceramic
Methods described or referenced in IEC 62321
ISO17075-2 for Hexavalent Chromium (Cr6+) in leather
EN 14372 followed by GC-MS for Phthalates
Bromine (Br)
Chlorine (Cl)
Fluorine (F)
All materials except metals and ceramics
EN 14582
US EPA SW-846 5050/9056
ASTM D 7359-14a, DIN 53474:2017-12, or IEC62321-3-2, followed by IC testing
PFOA
PFOS
Inks, leather, coated textiles, lubricants, coatings (e.g., primers, varnishes, paints, 
CVDs, photoresist, solder resist; see Definitions section), fluoropolymer materials
DIN CEN/TS 15968
LC-MS-MS methods that can achieve an MDL of 25 ppb
Any other substance listed in this specification
Any material if requested by Apple
As required
Chemical or Chemical Group
Test Results Required for:
Test Method
Benzene
Cleaning agents, degreasers, demolder solutions
Solvent extraction, analyzed by GC-MS or HPLC-MS
5 ppm Minimum Detection Limit 
Brominated Organic Solvents
Cleaning agents, degreasers, demolder solutions
EN 14582 for total bromine or US EPA SW-846 5050/9056
50 ppm Minimum Detection Limit
Others preapproved by Apple
Chlorinated Organic Solvents
Cleaning agents, degreasers, demolder solutions
EN 14582 for total chlorine or US EPA SW-846 5050/9056
50 ppm Minimum Detection Limit
Others preapproved by Apple
n-Hexane
Cleaning agents, degreasers, demolder solutions
Solvent extraction, analyzed by GC-MS or HPLC-MS
5 ppm Minimum Detection Limit 
N-Methylpyrrolidone (NMP)
Cleaning agents, degreasers, demolder solutions
Solvent extraction, analyzed by GC-MS or HPLC-MS
5 ppm Minimum Detection Limit 
Toluene
Cleaning agents, degreasers, demolder solutions
Solvent extraction, analyzed by GC-MS or HPLC-MS
5 ppm Minimum Detection Limit 
	
	
15
This document contains proprietary information of Apple Inc.
Apple Regulated Substances Specification—069-0135-M |  March 2023
Scope  |  Definitions  |  Restricted Substances in Products  |  Reportable Substances and Future Restrictions in Products  |  Notifying Apple of Chemical Phase Out and Reformulation from Suppliers  |  Restrictions in Manufacturing Processes  |  Reportable Substances and 
Future Restrictions in Manufacturing Processes  |  Supplementary Specifications  |  Demonstrating Compliance  |  Waiver Process  |  Full Material Disclosure (FMD)  |  Chemical Safety Disclosure (CSD)  |  Revision History  |  Referenced Documents  |  Appendices

All test reports must meet the following requirements: 
• Test reports must be no more than two years old from the date submitted to Apple 
or Apple’s manufacturing partners. Material test reports are required for each use of 
that material in a new product design. Suppliers are obligated to maintain 
appropriate  processes and systems to manage test reports so that the valid reports 
can be submitted to Apple in a timely manner. Materials tested must be 
homogeneous. 
Test reports that are not at a homogeneous material level are not acceptable 
(e.g., modules made up of several homogeneous materials tested after grinding
the entire subassembly).
• Apple requires unaltered test reports of homogeneous materials from certified labs 
as proof of compliance for the substances listed in Section 9. Digital test reports 
must be in the form of original, unaltered PDF files containing text and images as 
provided by the certified lab(s). Scanned, photographed, modified, and/or image-
only PDF files are prohibited without Apple’s prior approval, and will be rejected at 
Apple’s discretion.
• A nationally or internationally certified laboratory must issue the test report. 
Supplier-owned laboratories are acceptable if they are independently certified
and evidence of certification is submitted to environment@apple.com for approval. 
One example of international certification is ISO 17025.
• Test reports based on X-ray Fluorescence Spectroscopy (XRF) are not acceptable 
forms of compliance documentation.
• Testing must be conducted on the material in the form present in the final Apple 
product, accessory, or retail packaging item (i.e., “dry” or “cured”).
• When conducting test method (EN14582) for halogens (Br, Cl, F), supplier must 
ensure with test laboratory that the method is validated for different halogens using 
certified reference materials.
• Test reports submitted to Apple must be issued in English or include English if a 
multilingual report.
• It is the supplier’s responsibility to provide test reports at the supplier’s expense. 
• Redacted test reports will not be accepted by Apple. They may, however, satisfy 
contract manufacturer requirements. Contact the Apple Environmental Quality Team 
for guidance as required. (Source: Current version of Apple Environmental Quality 
Specification [069-8496] on Section 4.1 General Requirement).
Apple or Apple’s manufacturing partners may request test reports on a case-by-
case basis, at the supplier’s expense, if there are concerns regarding the validity of 
the test data or compliance of the parts. 
All compliance documentation (e.g., test reports and declarations) must be retained
by the supplier for a minimum of 10 years as part of the supplier’s record-keeping 
process. Digital formats are acceptable unless otherwise noted. Suppliers are also 
expected to have compliance assurance processes and systems to control and 
maintain compliance. Refer to the Apple Environmental Quality Specification 
(069-8496) for additional information on supplier’s internal environmental quality 
assurance requirements. Questions relating to test requirements may be directed to 
Apple Global Supply Managers (GSM), or emailed to Apple at 
environment@apple.com. 
For substances that are restricted or regulated and have been replaced with an 
alternative substance, the supplier is requ