ures 
to enable a decision to be taken by the Conference of the Parties.  Such information should 
reflect due regard for the differing capabilities and conditions among the Parties and should 
include consideration of the following indicative list of items:  
 
(a) 
Efficacy and efficiency of possible control measures in meeting risk reduction 
goals: 
 
 
(i) 
Technical feasibility; and 
 
 
(ii) 
Costs, including environmental and health costs; 
 
(b) 
Alternatives (products and processes): 
 
 
(i) 
Technical feasibility; 
 
 
 
(ii) 
Costs, including environmental and health costs; 
 
 
(iii) Efficacy; 
 
 
(iv) Risk; 
 
 
(v) 
Availability; and 
 
 
(vi) Accessibility; 
 
(c) 
Positive and/or negative impacts on society of implementing possible control 
measures: 
 
 
(i) 
Health, including public, environmental and occupational health; 
 
 
(ii) 
Agriculture, including aquaculture and forestry; 
 
 
(iii) Biota (biodiversity); 
 
 
(iv) Economic aspects; 
 
 
(v) 
Movement towards sustainable development; and 
 
 
(vi) Social costs; 
 
(d) 
Waste and disposal implications (in particular, obsolete stocks of pesticides and 
clean-up of contaminated sites): 
 
 
(i) 
Technical feasibility; and 
 
 
(ii) 
Cost; 
 
(e) 
Access to information and public education;  
 
(f) 
Status of control and monitoring capacity; and 
 
(g) 
Any national or regional control actions taken, including information on 
alternatives, and other relevant risk management information. 

 
39
 
Annex G 
 
ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION PROCEDURES FOR 
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 
(Decision SC-1/2 of the Conference of the Parties) 
 
Part I: Arbitration procedure 
 
 
The arbitration procedure for purposes of paragraph 2 (a) of Article 18 of the 
Convention shall be as follows: 
 
Article 1 
 
1. 
A Party may initiate recourse to arbitration in accordance with Article 18 of the 
Convention by written notification addressed to the other party to the dispute. The notification 
shall be accompanied by a statement of the claim, together with any supporting documents, 
and state the subject-matter of arbitration and include, in particular, the articles of the 
Convention the interpretation or application of which are at issue. 
 
2. 
The claimant party shall notify the Secretariat that the parties are referring a dispute to 
arbitration pursuant to Article 18. The notification shall be accompanied by the written 
notification of the claimant party, the statement of claim and the supporting documents 
referred to in paragraph 1 above. The Secretariat shall forward the information thus received 
to all Parties. 
 
Article 2 
 
1. 
If a dispute is referred to arbitration in accordance with Article 1 above, an arbitral 
tribunal shall be established. It shall consist of three members.  
 
2. 
Each of the parties to the dispute shall appoint an arbitrator and the two arbitrators so 
appointed shall designate by common agreement the third arbitrator, who shall be the 
President of the tribunal. The President of the tribunal shall not be a national of one of the 
parties to the dispute, nor have his or her usual place of residence in the territory of one of 
those parties, nor be employed by any of them, nor have dealt with the case in any other 
capacity. 
 
3. 
In disputes between more than two parties, parties in the same interest shall appoint one 
arbitrator jointly by agreement. 
 
4. 
Any vacancy shall be filled in the manner prescribed for the initial appointment. 
 
5. 
If the parties do not agree on the subject-matter of the dispute before the President of 
the arbitral tribunal is designated, the arbitral tribunal shall determine the subject-matter. 
 
Article 3 
 
1. 
If one of the parties to the dispute does not appoint an arbitrator within two months of 
the date on which the respondent party receives the notification of the arbitration, the other 
party may inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall make the 
designation within a further two-month period. 

 
40
 
2. 
If the President of the arbitral tribunal has not been designated within two months of the 
date of the appointment of the second arbitrator, the Secretary-General of the United Nations 
shall, at the request of a party, designate the President within a further two-month period.  
 
Article 4 
 
 
The arbitral tribunal shall render its decisions in accordance with the provisions of the 
Convention and international law. 
 
Article 5 
 
 
Unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the arbitral tribunal shall determine its 
own rules of procedure. 
 
Article 6 
 
 
The arbitral tribunal may, at the request of one of the parties, indicate essential interim 
measures of protection. 
 
Article 7 
 
 
The parties to the dispute shall facilitate the work of the arbitral tribunal and, in 
particular, using all means at their disposal, shall: 
 
(a) 
Provide it with all relevant documents, information and facilities; and 
 
(b) 
Enable it, when necessary, to call witnesses or experts and receive their evidence. 
 
Article 8 
 
The parties and the arbitrators are under an obligation to protect the confidentiality of 
any information they receive in confidence during the proceedings of the arbitral tribunal. 
 
Article 9 
 
Unless the arbitral tribunal determines otherwise because of the particular 
circumstances of the case, the costs of the tribunal shall be borne by the parties to the dispute 
in equal shares. The tribunal shall keep a record of all its costs, and shall furnish a final 
statement thereof to the parties. 
 
Article 10 
 
A party that has an interest of a legal nature in the subject matter of the dispute which 
may be affected by the decision in the case may intervene in the proceedings with the consent 
of the tribunal. 
 
Article 11 
 
The tribunal may hear and determine counterclaims arising directly out of the subject 
matter of the dispute. 
 

 
41
Article 12 
 
Decisions both on procedure and substance of the arbitral tribunal shall be taken by a 
majority vote of its members. 
 
Article 13 
 
1. 
If one of the parties to the dispute does not appear before the arbitral tribunal or fails to 
defend its case, the other party may request the tribunal to continue the proceedings and to 
make its award. Absence of a party or a failure of a party to defend its case shall not constitute 
a bar to the proceedings. 
 
2. 
Before rendering its final decision, the arbitral tribunal must satisfy itself that the claim 
is well founded in fact and law. 
 
Article 14 
 
The tribunal shall render its final decision within five months of the date on which it is 
fully constituted unless it finds it necessary to extend the time limit for a period which should 
not exceed five more months. 
 
Article 15 
 
The final decision of the arbitral tribunal shall be confined to the subject matter of the 
dispute and shall state the reasons on which it is based. It shall contain the names of the 
members who have participated and the date of the final decision. Any member of the tribunal 
may attach a separate or dissenting opinion to the final decision. 
 
Article 16 
 
The award shall be binding on the parties to the dispute. The interpretation of the 
Convention given by the award shall also be binding upon a Party intervening under Article 
10 above insofar as it relates to matters in respect of which that Party intervened. The award 
shall be without appeal unless the parties to the dispute have agreed in advance to an appellate 
procedure. 
 
Article 17 
 
 
Any controversy which may arise between those bound by the final decision in 
accordance with Article 16 above, as regards the interpretation or manner of implementation 
of that decision, may be submitted by any of them for decision to the arbitral tribunal which 
rendered it. 
 

 
42
Part II: Conciliation procedure 
 
 
The conciliation procedure for purposes of paragraph 6 of Article 18 of the Convention 
shall be as follows: 
 
Article 1 
 
1. 
A request by a party to a dispute to establish a conciliation commission in consequence 
of paragraph 6 of Article 18 shall be addressed in writing to the Secretariat. The Secretariat 
shall forthwith inform all Parties to the Convention accordingly. 
 
2. 
The conciliation commission shall, unless the parties otherwise agree, be composed of 
three members, one appointed by each party concerned and a President chosen jointly by 
those members. 
 
Article 2 
 
In disputes between more than two parties, parties in the same interest shall appoint 
their members of the commission jointly by agreement. 
 
Article 3 
 
If any appointments by the parties are not made within two months of the date of receipt 
by the Secretariat of the written request referred to in Article 1, the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations shall, upon request by a party, make those appointments within a further two-
month period. 
 
Article 4 
 
If the President of the conciliation commission has not been chosen within two months 
of the second member of the commission being appointed, the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations shall, upon request by a party, designate the President within a further two-
month period. 
 
Article 5 
 
1. 
The conciliation commission shall, unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, 
determine its own rules of procedure. 
 
2. 
The parties and members of the commission are under an obligation to protect the 
confidentiality of any information they receive in confidence during the proceedings of the 
commission. 
 
Article 6 
 
The conciliation commission shall take its decisions by a majority vote of its members.  
 
Article 7 
 
 
The conciliation commission shall render a report with recommendations for resolution 
of the dispute within twelve months of being established, which the parties shall consider in 
good faith. 

 
43
 
Article 8 
 
Any disagreement as to whether the conciliation commission has competence to 
consider a matter refer