terms of reference, organization 
and operation of the Committee; and 
 
 
(c) 
The Committee shall make every effort to adopt its recommendations by 
consensus.  If all efforts at consensus have been exhausted, and no consensus reached, such 
recommendation shall as a last resort be adopted by a two-thirds majority vote of the members 
present and voting. 
 

 
19
7. 
The Conference of the Parties shall, at its third meeting, evaluate the continued need for 
the procedure contained in paragraph 2 (b) of Article 3, including consideration of its 
effectiveness. 
 
8. 
The United Nations, its specialized agencies and the International Atomic Energy 
Agency, as well as any State not Party to this Convention, may be represented at meetings of 
the Conference of the Parties as observers.  Any body or agency, whether national or 
international, governmental or non-governmental, qualified in matters covered by the 
Convention, and which has informed the Secretariat of its wish to be represented at a meeting 
of the Conference of the Parties as an observer may be admitted unless at least one third of the 
Parties present object.  The admission and participation of observers shall be subject to the 
rules of procedure adopted by the Conference of the Parties. 
 
Article 20 
 
Secretariat 
 
1. 
A Secretariat is hereby established. 
 
2. 
The functions of the Secretariat shall be: 
 
(a) 
To make arrangements for meetings of the Conference of the Parties and its 
subsidiary bodies and to provide them with services as required; 
 
 
(b) 
To facilitate assistance to the Parties, particularly developing country Parties and 
Parties with economies in transition, on request, in the implementation of this Convention; 
 
 
(c) 
To ensure the necessary coordination with the secretariats of other relevant 
international bodies; 
 
 
(d) 
To prepare and make available to the Parties periodic reports based on 
information received pursuant to Article 15 and other available information; 
 
 
(e) 
To enter, under the overall guidance of the Conference of the Parties, into such 
administrative and contractual arrangements as may be required for the effective discharge of 
its functions; and  
 
 
(f) 
To perform the other secretariat functions specified in this Convention and such 
other functions as may be determined by the Conference of the Parties. 
 
3. 
The secretariat functions for this Convention shall be performed by the Executive 
Director of the United Nations Environment Programme, unless the Conference of the Parties 
decides, by a three-fourths majority of the Parties present and voting, to entrust the secretariat 
functions to one or more other international organizations. 
 
Article 21 
 
Amendments to the Convention 
 
1. 
Amendments to this Convention may be proposed by any Party. 
 

 
20
2. 
Amendments to this Convention shall be adopted at a meeting of the Conference of the 
Parties.  The text of any proposed amendment shall be communicated to the Parties by the 
Secretariat at least six months before the meeting at which it is proposed for adoption.  The 
Secretariat shall also communicate proposed amendments to the signatories to this 
Convention and, for information, to the depositary. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall make every effort to reach agreement on any proposed amendment to 
this Convention by consensus.  If all efforts at consensus have been exhausted, and no 
agreement reached, the amendment shall as a last resort be adopted by a three-fourths 
majority vote of the Parties present and voting.  
 
4. 
The amendment shall be communicated by the depositary to all Parties for ratification, 
acceptance or approval. 
 
5. 
Ratification, acceptance or approval of an amendment shall be notified to the depositary 
in writing.  An amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 3 shall enter into force for 
the Parties having accepted it on the ninetieth day after the date of deposit of instruments of 
ratification, acceptance or approval by at least three-fourths of the Parties.  Thereafter, the 
amendment shall enter into force for any other Party on the ninetieth day after the date on 
which that Party deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the 
amendment. 
 
Article 22 
 
Adoption and amendment of annexes 
 
1. 
Annexes to this Convention shall form an integral part thereof and, unless expressly 
provided otherwise, a reference to this Convention constitutes at the same time a reference to 
any annexes thereto. 
 
2. 
Any additional annexes shall be restricted to procedural, scientific, technical or 
administrative matters. 
 
3. 
The following procedure shall apply to the proposal, adoption and entry into force of 
additional annexes to this Convention: 
 
(a) 
Additional annexes shall be proposed and adopted according to the procedure laid 
down in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Article 21;  
 
 
(b) 
Any Party that is unable to accept an additional annex shall so notify the 
depositary, in writing, within one year from the date of communication by the depositary of 
the adoption of the additional annex.  The depositary shall without delay notify all Parties of 
any such notification received.  A Party may at any time withdraw a previous notification of 
non-acceptance in respect of any additional annex, and the annex shall thereupon enter into 
force for that Party subject to subparagraph (c); and 
 
 
(c) 
On the expiry of one year from the date of the communication by the depositary 
of the adoption of an additional annex, the annex shall enter into force for all Parties that have 
not submitted a notification in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (b). 
 
4. 
The proposal, adoption and entry into force of amendments to Annex A, B or C shall be 
subject to the same procedures as for the proposal, adoption and entry into force of additional 

 
21
annexes to this Convention, except that an amendment to Annex A, B or C shall not enter into 
force with respect to any Party that has made a declaration with respect to amendment to 
those Annexes in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 25, in which case any such 
amendment shall enter into force for such a Party on the ninetieth day after the date of deposit 
with the depositary of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with 
respect to such amendment. 
 
5. 
The following procedure shall apply to the proposal, adoption and entry into force of an 
amendment to Annex D, E or F: 
 
(a) 
Amendments shall be proposed according to the procedure in paragraphs 1 and 2 
of Article 21; 
 
(b) 
The Parties shall take decisions on an amendment to Annex D, E or F by 
consensus; and 
 
(c) 
A decision to amend Annex D, E or F shall forthwith be communicated to the 
Parties by the depositary.  The amendment shall enter into force for all Parties on a date to be 
specified in the decision. 
 
6. 
If an additional annex or an amendment to an annex is related to an amendment to this 
Convention, the additional annex or amendment shall not enter into force until such time as 
the amendment to the Convention enters into force. 
 
Article 23 
 
Right to vote 
 
1. 
Each Party to this Convention shall have one vote, except as provided for in paragraph 
2. 
 
2. 
A regional economic integration organization, on matters within its competence, shall 
exercise its right to vote with a number of votes equal to the number of its member States that 
are Parties to this Convention.  Such an organization shall not exercise its right to vote if any 
of its member States exercises its right to vote, and vice versa. 
 
Article 24 
 
Signature 
 
This Convention shall be open for signature at Stockholm by all States and regional 
economic integration organizations on 23 May 2001, and at the United Nations Headquarters 
in New York from 24 May 2001 to 22 May 2002. 
 
Article 25 
 
Ratification, acceptance, approval or accession 
 
1. 
This Convention shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by States and by 
regional economic integration organizations.  It shall be open for accession by States and by 
regional economic integration organizations from the day after the date on which the 

 
22
Convention is closed for signature.  Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or 
accession shall be deposited with the depositary. 
 
2. 
Any regional economic integration organization that becomes a Party to this 
Convention without any of its member States being a Party shall be bound by all the 
obligations under the Convention.  In the case of such organizations, one or more of whose 
member States is a Party to this Convention, the organization and its member States shall 
decide on their respective responsibilities for the performance of their obligations under the 
Convention.  In such cases, the organization and the member States shall not be entitled to 
exercise rights under the Convention concurrently. 
 
3. 
In its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, a regional economic 
integration organization shall declare the extent of its competence in respect of the matters 
governed by this Convention.  Any such organization shall also inform the depositary, who 
shall in turn inform the Parties, of any relevant modification in the extent of its competence. 
 
4. 
In its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, any Party may 
declare that, with respect to it, any amendment to Annex A, B or C shall enter into force only 
upon the deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with 
respect thereto. 
 
Article 26 
 
Entry into force 
 
1. 
This Convention shall enter into force on the ninetieth day after the date of deposit of 
the fiftieth instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession. 
 
2. 
For each State or regional economic integration organization that ratifies, accepts or 
approves this Convention or accedes thereto after th