ce of the relevant obligation with respect to 
that chemical, shall not be considered as listed in this Annex, provided that a Party 
has notified the Secretariat that a particular type of article remains in use within 
that Party.  The Secretariat shall make such notifications publicly available; 
 
(iii) This note shall not be considered as a production and use specific exemption for 
purposes of paragraph 2 of Article 3.  Given that no significant quantities of the 
chemical are expected to reach humans and the environment during the production 
and use of a closed-system site-limited intermediate, a Party, upon notification to 
the Secretariat, may allow the production and use of quantities of a chemical listed 
in this Annex as a closed-system site-limited intermediate that is chemically 
transformed in the manufacture of other chemicals that, taking into consideration 
the criteria in paragraph 1 of Annex D, do not exhibit the characteristics of 
persistent organic pollutants.  This notification shall include information on total 
production and use of such chemical or a reasonable estimate of such information 
and information regarding the nature of the closed-system site-limited process 
including the amount of any non-transformed and unintentional trace 
contamination of the persistent organic pollutant-starting material in the final 
product.  This procedure applies except as otherwise specified in this Annex.  The 

 
29
Secretariat shall make such notifications available to the Conference of the Parties 
and to the public.  Such production or use shall not be considered a production or 
use specific exemption.  Such production and use shall cease after a ten-year 
period, unless the Party concerned submits a new notification to the Secretariat, in 
which case the period will be extended for an additional ten years unless the 
Conference of the Parties, after a review of the production and use decides 
otherwise.  The notification procedure can be repeated; 
 
(iv) All the specific exemptions in this Annex may be exercised by Parties that have 
registered in respect of them in accordance with Article 4.  
 
Part II 
DDT (1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane) 
1. 
The production and use of DDT shall be eliminated except for Parties that have notified 
the Secretariat of their intention to produce and/or use it.  A DDT Register is hereby 
established and shall be available to the public.  The Secretariat shall maintain the DDT 
Register. 
2. 
Each Party that produces and/or uses DDT shall restrict such production and/or use for 
disease vector control in accordance with the World Health Organization recommendations 
and guidelines on the use of DDT and when locally safe, effective and affordable alternatives 
are not available to the Party in question. 
3. 
In the event that a Party not listed in the DDT Register determines that it requires DDT 
for disease vector control, it shall notify the Secretariat as soon as possible in order to have its 
name added forthwith to the DDT Register.  It shall at the same time notify the World Health 
Organization.  
4. 
Every three years, each Party that uses DDT shall provide to the Secretariat and the 
World Health Organization information on the amount used, the conditions of such use and its 
relevance to that Party’s disease management strategy, in a format to be decided by the 
Conference of the Parties in consultation with the World Health Organization. 
5. 
With the goal of reducing and ultimately eliminating the use of DDT, the Conference of 
the Parties shall encourage: 
 
(a) 
Each Party using DDT to develop and implement an action plan as part of the 
implementation plan specified in Article 7.  That action plan shall include: 
(i) 
Development of regulatory and other mechanisms to ensure that DDT use is 
restricted to disease vector control; 
(ii) 
Implementation of suitable alternative products, methods and strategies, 
including resistance management strategies to ensure the continuing 
effectiveness of these alternatives; 
(iii) Measures to strengthen health care and to reduce the incidence of the 
disease. 
(b) 
The Parties, within their capabilities, to promote research and development of safe 
alternative chemical and non-chemical products, methods and strategies for Parties using 
DDT, relevant to the conditions of those countries and with the goal of decreasing the human 

 
30
and economic burden of disease.  Factors to be promoted when considering alternatives or 
combinations of alternatives shall include the human health risks and environmental 
implications of such alternatives.  Viable alternatives to DDT shall pose less risk to human 
health and the environment, be suitable for disease control based on conditions in the Parties 
in question and be supported with monitoring data. 
 
6. 
Commencing at its first meeting, and at least every three years thereafter, the 
Conference of the Parties shall, in consultation with the World Health Organization, evaluate 
the continued need for DDT for disease vector control on the basis of available scientific, 
technical, environmental and economic information, including: 
 
(a) 
The production and use of DDT and the conditions set out in paragraph 2;  
 
(b) 
The availability, suitability and implementation of the alternatives to DDT; and 
 
(c) 
Progress in strengthening the capacity of countries to transfer safely to reliance on 
such alternatives. 
7. 
A Party may, at any time, withdraw its name from the DDT Registry upon written 
notification to the Secretariat.  The withdrawal shall take effect on the date specified in the 
notification. 

 
31
 
Annex C 
 
UNINTENTIONAL PRODUCTION 
 
Part I: Persistent organic pollutants subject to the requirements of Article 5 
 
 
This Annex applies to the following persistent organic pollutants when formed and 
released unintentionally from anthropogenic sources: 
 
Chemical 
Polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/PCDF) 
Hexachlorobenzene (HCB) (CAS No: 118-74-1) 
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) 
 
Part II:  Source categories 
 
 
Polychlorinated 
dibenzo-p-dioxins 
and 
dibenzofurans, hexachlorobenzene and 
polychlorinated biphenyls are unintentionally formed and released from thermal processes 
involving organic matter and chlorine as a result of incomplete combustion or chemical 
reactions. The following industrial source categories have the potential for comparatively high 
formation and release of these chemicals to the environment: 
 
 
(a) 
Waste incinerators, including co-incinerators of municipal, hazardous or medical 
waste or of sewage sludge; 
 
 
(b) 
Cement kilns firing hazardous waste; 
 
 
(c) 
Production of pulp using elemental chlorine or chemicals generating elemental 
chlorine for bleaching; 
 
 
(d) 
The following thermal processes in the metallurgical industry: 
 
 (i) 
Secondary copper production; 
 
 (ii) 
Sinter plants in the iron and steel industry; 
  
 (iii) Secondary aluminium production; 
  
 (iv) Secondary zinc production. 
 
Part III:  Source categories 
 
 
Polychlorinated 
dibenzo-p-dioxins 
and 
dibenzofurans, hexachlorobenzene and 
polychlorinated biphenyls may also be unintentionally formed and released from the 
following source categories, including: 
 
 
(a) 
Open burning of waste, including burning of landfill sites; 
 
 (b) 
Thermal processes in the metallurgical industry not mentioned in Part II; 
 

 
32
 (c) 
Residential combustion sources; 
 
(d) 
Fossil fuel-fired utility and industrial boilers; 
 
 
(e) 
Firing installations for wood and other biomass fuels; 
 
(f) 
Specific chemical production processes releasing unintentionally formed 
persistent organic pollutants, especially production of chlorophenols and chloranil; 
 
 
(g) 
Crematoria; 
 
 
(h) 
Motor vehicles, particularly those burning leaded gasoline; 
 
 
(i) 
Destruction of animal carcasses; 
 
 
(j) 
Textile and leather dyeing (with chloranil) and finishing (with alkaline 
extraction); 
 
 
(k) 
Shredder plants for the treatment of end of life vehicles; 
 
 
(l) 
Smouldering of copper cables; 
 
 
(m) Waste oil refineries. 
 
Part IV:  Definitions 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
 
(a) 
“Polychlorinated biphenyls” means aromatic compounds formed in such a manner 
that the hydrogen atoms on the biphenyl molecule (two benzene rings bonded together by a 
single carbon-carbon bond) may be replaced by up to ten chlorine atoms; and 
 
 
(b) 
“Polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins” and “polychlorinated dibenzofurans” are 
tricyclic, aromatic compounds formed by two benzene rings connected by two oxygen atoms 
in polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and by one oxygen atom and one carbon-carbon bond in 
polychlorinated dibenzofurans and the hydrogen atoms of which may be replaced by up to 
eight chlorine atoms.  
 
2. 
In this Annex, the toxicity of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans is 
expressed using the concept of toxic equivalency which measures the relative dioxin-like 
toxic activity of different congeners of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans 
and coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls in comparison to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.  
The toxic equivalent factor values to be used for the purposes of this Convention shall be 
consistent with accepted international standards, commencing with the World Health 
Organization 1998 mammalian toxic equivalent factor values for polychlorinated dibenzo-p-
dioxins and dibenzofurans and coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls.  Concentrations are 
expressed in toxic equivalents. 
 

 
33
Part V:  General guidance on best available techniques and best environmental practices 
 
 
This Part provides general guidance to Parties on preventing or reducing releases of the 
chemicals listed in Part I. 
 
A.  General prevention measures relating to both best available techniques 
 and best environmental practices 
 
 
Priority should be given to the consi