nder conditions of normal use, such release shall be to the minimum extent 
necessary, taking into account any applicable standards and guidelines. 
 
Article 4 
 
Register of specific exemptions 
 
1. 
A Register is hereby established for the purpose of identifying the Parties that have 
specific exemptions listed in Annex A or Annex B.   It shall not identify Parties that make use 
of the provisions in Annex A or Annex B that may be exercised by all Parties.  The Register 
shall be maintained by the Secretariat and shall be available to the public.    

 
5
 
2. 
The Register shall include: 
 
(a) 
A list of the types of specific exemptions reproduced from Annex A and 
Annex B; 
 
(b) 
A list of the Parties that have a specific exemption listed under Annex A or 
Annex B; and 
 
(c) 
A list of the expiry dates for each registered specific exemption. 
 
3. 
Any State may, on becoming a Party, by means of a notification in writing to the 
Secretariat, register for one or more types of specific exemptions listed in Annex A or Annex 
B. 
 
4. 
Unless an earlier date is indicated in the Register by a Party, or an extension is granted 
pursuant to paragraph 7, all registrations of specific exemptions shall expire five years after 
the date of entry into force of this Convention with respect to a particular chemical. 
 
5. 
At its first meeting, the Conference of the Parties shall decide upon its review process 
for the entries in the Register. 
 
6. 
Prior to a review of an entry in the Register, the Party concerned shall submit a report to 
the Secretariat justifying its continuing need for registration of that exemption.  The report 
shall be circulated by the Secretariat to all Parties.  The review of a registration shall be 
carried out on the basis of all available information.  Thereupon, the Conference of the Parties 
may make such recommendations to the Party concerned as it deems appropriate. 
 
7. 
The Conference of the Parties may, upon request from the Party concerned, decide to 
extend the expiry date of a specific exemption for a period of up to five years.  In making its 
decision, the Conference of the Parties shall take due account of the special circumstances of 
the developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition. 
 
8. 
A Party may, at any time, withdraw an entry from the Register for a specific exemption 
upon written notification to the Secretariat.  The withdrawal shall take effect on the date 
specified in the notification. 
 
9. 
When there are no longer any Parties registered for a particular type of specific 
exemption, no new registrations may be made with respect to it. 
 
Article 5 
 
Measures to reduce or eliminate releases from unintentional production 
 
 
Each Party shall at a minimum take the following measures to reduce the total releases 
derived from anthropogenic sources of each of the chemicals listed in Annex C, with the goal 
of their continuing minimization and, where feasible, ultimate elimination: 
 
 
(a) 
Develop an action plan or, where appropriate, a regional or subregional action 
plan within two years of the date of entry into force of this Convention for it, and 
subsequently implement it as part of its implementation plan specified in Article 7, designed 
to identify, characterize and address the release of the chemicals listed in Annex C and to 

 
6
facilitate implementation of subparagraphs (b) to (e). The action plan shall include the 
following elements: 
 
(i) 
An evaluation of current and projected releases, including the development 
and maintenance of source inventories and release estimates, taking into 
consideration the source categories identified in Annex C; 
 
(ii) 
An evaluation of the efficacy of the laws and policies of the Party relating to 
the management of such releases; 
 
(iii) Strategies to meet the obligations of this paragraph, taking into account the 
evaluations in (i) and (ii); 
 
(iv) Steps to promote education and training with regard to, and awareness of, 
those strategies;  
 
(v) 
A review every five years of those strategies and of their success in meeting 
the obligations of this paragraph; such reviews shall be included in reports 
submitted pursuant to Article 15;  
 
(vi) A schedule for implementation of the action plan, including for the 
strategies and measures identified therein; 
 
 
(b) 
Promote the application of available, feasible and practical measures that can 
expeditiously achieve a realistic and meaningful level of release reduction or source 
elimination;  
 
 
(c) 
Promote the development and, where it deems appropriate, require the use of 
substitute or modified materials, products and processes to prevent the formation and release 
of the chemicals listed in Annex C, taking into consideration the general guidance on 
prevention and release reduction measures in Annex C and guidelines to be adopted by 
decision of the Conference of the Parties;  
 
 
(d) 
Promote and, in accordance with the implementation schedule of its action plan, 
require the use of best available techniques for new sources within source categories which a 
Party has identified as warranting such action in its action plan, with a particular initial focus 
on source categories identified in Part II of Annex C.  In any case, the requirement to use best 
available techniques for new sources in the categories listed in Part II of that Annex shall be 
phased in as soon as practicable but no later than four years after the entry into force of the 
Convention for that Party.  For the identified categories, Parties shall promote the use of best 
environmental practices.  When applying best available techniques and best environmental 
practices, Parties should take into consideration the general guidance on prevention and 
release reduction measures in that Annex and guidelines on best available techniques and best 
environmental practices to be adopted by decision of the Conference of the Parties; 
 
 
(e) 
Promote, in accordance with its action plan, the use of best available techniques 
and best environmental practices: 
 
(i) 
For existing sources, within the source categories listed in Part II of Annex 
C and within source categories such as those in Part III of that Annex; and 
 

 
7
(ii) 
For new sources, within source categories such as those listed in Part III of 
Annex C which a Party has not addressed under subparagraph (d). 
 
When applying best available techniques and best environmental practices, Parties should take 
into consideration the general guidance on prevention and release reduction measures in Annex 
C and guidelines on best available techniques and best environmental practices to be adopted 
by decision of the Conference of the Parties; 
 
 
(f) 
For the purposes of this paragraph and Annex C: 
 
(i) 
“Best available techniques” means the most effective and advanced stage in 
the development of activities and their methods of operation which indicate 
the practical suitability of particular techniques for providing in principle 
the basis for release limitations designed to prevent and, where that is not 
practicable, generally to reduce releases of chemicals listed in Part I of 
Annex C and their impact on the environment as a whole. In this regard: 
 
(ii) 
“Techniques” includes both the technology used and the way in which the 
installation is designed, built, maintained, operated and decommissioned; 
 
(iii) “Available” techniques means those techniques that are accessible to the 
operator and that are developed on a scale that allows implementation in the 
relevant industrial sector, under economically and technically viable 
conditions, taking into consideration the costs and advantages; and 
 
(iv) “Best” means most effective in achieving a high general level of protection 
of the environment as a whole; 
 
(v) 
“Best environmental practices” means the application of the most 
appropriate combination of environmental control measures and strategies; 
 
(vi) “New source” means any source of which the construction or substantial 
modification is commenced at least one year after the date of:  
 
a. 
Entry into force of this Convention for the Party concerned; or  
 
b. 
Entry into force for the Party concerned of an amendment to Annex C 
where the source becomes subject to the provisions of this 
Convention only by virtue of that amendment. 
 
 
(g) 
Release limit values or performance standards may be used by a Party to fulfill its 
commitments for best available techniques under this paragraph. 
 
Article 6 
 
Measures to reduce or eliminate releases from stockpiles and wastes 
 
1. 
In order to ensure that stockpiles consisting of or containing chemicals listed either in 
Annex A or Annex B and wastes, including products and articles upon becoming wastes, 
consisting of, containing or contaminated with a chemical listed in Annex A, B or C, are 
managed in a manner protective of human health and the environment, each Party shall: 
 

 
8
 
(a) 
Develop appropriate strategies for identifying:  
 
(i) 
Stockpiles consisting of or containing chemicals listed either in Annex A or 
Annex B; and 
 
(ii) 
Products and articles in use and wastes consisting of, containing or 
contaminated with a chemical listed in Annex A, B or C; 
 
 
(b) 
Identify, to the extent practicable, stockpiles consisting of or containing chemicals 
listed either in Annex A or Annex B on the basis of the strategies referred to in subparagraph 
(a); 
 
 
(c) 
Manage stockpiles, as appropriate, in a safe, efficient and environmentally sound 
manner.  Stockpiles of chemicals listed either in Annex A or Annex B, after they are no 
longer allowed to be used according to any specific exemption specified in Annex A or any 
specific exemption or acceptable purpose specified in Annex B, except stockpiles which are 
allowed to be exported according to paragraph 2 of Article 3, shall be deemed to be waste and 
shall be managed in accor