king into account paragraph 5 of Article 9;  
 

 
12
 
(c) 
Development and implementation, especially for women, children and the least 
educated, of educational and public awareness programmes on persistent organic pollutants, 
as well as on their health and environmental effects and on their alternatives;  
 
 
(d) 
Public participation in addressing persistent organic pollutants and their health 
and environmental effects and in developing adequate responses, including opportunities for 
providing input at the national level regarding implementation of this Convention;  
 
 
(e) 
Training of workers, scientists, educators and technical and managerial personnel; 
 
 
(f) 
Development and exchange of educational and public awareness materials at the 
national and international levels; and 
 
 
(g) 
Development and implementation of education and training programmes at the 
national and international levels. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall, within its capabilities, ensure that the public has access to the public 
information referred to in paragraph 1 and that the information is kept up-to-date.  
 
3. 
Each Party shall, within its capabilities, encourage industry and professional users to 
promote and facilitate the provision of the information referred to in paragraph 1 at the 
national level and, as appropriate, subregional, regional and global levels. 
 
4. 
In providing information on persistent organic pollutants and their alternatives, Parties 
may use safety data sheets, reports, mass media and other means of communication, and may 
establish information centres at national and regional levels. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall give sympathetic consideration to developing mechanisms, such as 
pollutant release and transfer registers, for the collection and dissemination of information on 
estimates of the annual quantities of the chemicals listed in Annex A, B or C that are released 
or disposed of. 
 
Article 11 
 
Research, development and monitoring 
 
1. 
The Parties shall, within their capabilities, at the national and international levels, 
encourage and/or undertake appropriate research, development, monitoring and cooperation 
pertaining to persistent organic pollutants and, where relevant, to their alternatives and to 
candidate persistent organic pollutants, including on their: 
 
(a) Sources and releases into the environment; 
 
(b) Presence, levels and trends in humans and the environment; 
 
(c) Environmental transport, fate and transformation; 
 
(d) Effects on human health and the environment;  
 
(e) Socio-economic and cultural impacts; 
 
(f) Release reduction and/or elimination; and 

 
13
 
(g) Harmonized methodologies for making inventories of generating sources and 
analytical techniques for the measurement of releases. 
 
2. 
In undertaking action under paragraph 1, the Parties shall, within their capabilities: 
 
(a) 
Support and further develop, as appropriate, international programmes, networks 
and organizations aimed at defining, conducting, assessing and financing research, data 
collection and monitoring, taking into account the need to minimize duplication of effort; 
 
 
(b) 
Support national and international efforts to strengthen national scientific and 
technical research capabilities, particularly in developing countries and countries with 
economies in transition, and to promote access to, and the exchange of, data and analyses; 
 
 
(c) 
Take into account the concerns and needs, particularly in the field of financial and 
technical resources, of developing countries and countries with economies in transition and 
cooperate in improving their capability to participate in the efforts referred to in 
subparagraphs (a) and (b); 
 
(d) 
Undertake research work geared towards alleviating the effects of persistent 
organic pollutants on reproductive health; 
 
 
(e) 
Make the results of their research, development and monitoring activities referred 
to in this paragraph accessible to the public on a timely and regular basis; and 
 
 
(f) 
Encourage and/or undertake cooperation with regard to storage and maintenance 
of information generated from research, development and monitoring. 
 
Article 12 
 
Technical assistance 
 
1. 
The Parties recognize that rendering of timely and appropriate technical assistance in 
response to requests from developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition 
is essential to the successful implementation of this Convention. 
 
2. 
The Parties shall cooperate to provide timely and appropriate technical assistance to 
developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition, to assist them, taking into 
account their particular needs, to develop and strengthen their capacity to implement their 
obligations under this Convention. 
 
3. 
In this regard, technical assistance to be provided by developed country Parties, and 
other Parties in accordance with their capabilities, shall include, as appropriate and as 
mutually agreed, technical assistance for capacity-building relating to implementation of the 
obligations under this Convention.  Further guidance in this regard shall be provided by the 
Conference of the Parties.  
 
4. 
The Parties shall establish, as appropriate, arrangements for the purpose of providing 
technical assistance and promoting the transfer of technology to developing country Parties 
and Parties with economies in transition relating to the implementation of this Convention.  
These arrangements shall include regional and subregional centres for capacity-building and 
transfer of technology to assist developing country Parties and Parties with economies in 

 
14
transition to fulfil their obligations under this Convention.  Further guidance in this regard 
shall be provided by the Conference of the Parties.  
 
5. 
The Parties shall, in the context of this Article, take full account of the specific needs 
and special situation of least developed countries and small island developing states in their 
actions with regard to technical assistance. 
 
Article 13 
 
Financial resources and mechanisms 
 
1. 
Each Party undertakes to provide, within its capabilities, financial support and 
incentives in respect of those national activities that are intended to achieve the objective of 
this Convention in accordance with its national plans, priorities and programmes. 
 
2. 
The developed country Parties shall provide new and additional financial resources to 
enable developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition to meet the agreed 
full incremental costs of implementing measures which fulfill their obligations under this 
Convention as agreed between a recipient Party and an entity participating in the mechanism 
described in paragraph 6.  Other Parties may also on a voluntary basis and in accordance with 
their capabilities provide such financial resources.  Contributions from other sources should 
also be encouraged.  The implementation of these commitments shall take into account the 
need for adequacy, predictability, the timely flow of funds and the importance of burden 
sharing among the contributing Parties.  
 
3. 
Developed country Parties, and other Parties in accordance with their capabilities and in 
accordance with their national plans, priorities and programmes, may also provide and 
developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition avail themselves of 
financial resources to assist in their implementation of this Convention through other bilateral, 
regional and multilateral sources or channels. 
 
4. 
The extent to which the developing country Parties will effectively implement their 
commitments under this Convention will depend on the effective implementation by 
developed country Parties of their commitments under this Convention relating to financial 
resources, technical assistance and technology transfer.  The fact that sustainable economic 
and social development and eradication of poverty are the first and overriding priorities of the 
developing country Parties will be taken fully into account, giving due consideration to the 
need for the protection of human health and the environment.  
 
5. 
The Parties shall take full account of the specific needs and special situation of the least 
developed countries and the small island developing states in their actions with regard to 
funding.   
 
6. 
A mechanism for the provision of adequate and sustainable financial resources to 
developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition on a grant or concessional 
basis to assist in their implementation of the Convention is hereby defined.  The mechanism 
shall function under the authority, as appropriate, and guidance of, and be accountable to the 
Conference of the Parties for the purposes of this Convention.  Its operation shall be entrusted 
to one or more entities, including existing international entities, as may be decided upon by 
the Conference of the Parties.  The mechanism may also include other entities providing 
multilateral, regional and bilateral financial and technical assistance.  Contributions to the 

 
15
mechanism shall be additional to other financial transfers to developing country Parties and 
Parties with economies in transition as reflected in, and in accordance with, paragraph 2. 
 
7. 
Pursuant to the objectives of this Convention and paragraph 6, the Conference of the 
Parties shall at its first meeting adopt appropriate guidance to be provided to the mechanism 
and shall agree with the entity or entities participating in the financial mechanism upon 
arrangements to give effect thereto.  The guidance shall address, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
The determination of the policy, strategy and programme priorities, as well as 
clear and detailed criteria and guidelines regarding eligibility for access to and utilization of 
financial resources including monitoring and evaluation on a regular basis of such utilization; 
 
(b) 
The pr