ovision by the entity or entities of regular reports to the Conference of the 
Parties on adequacy and sustainability of funding for activities relevant to the implementation 
of this Convention; 
 
(c) 
The promotion of multiple-source funding approaches, mechanisms and 
arrangements; 
 
(d) 
The modalities for the determination in a predictable and identifiable manner of 
the amount of funding necessary and available for the implementation of this Convention, 
keeping in mind that the phasing out of persistent organic pollutants might require sustained 
funding, and the conditions under which that amount shall be periodically reviewed; and 
 
(e) 
The modalities for the provision to interested Parties of assistance with needs 
assessment, information on available sources of funds and on funding patterns in order to 
facilitate coordination among them.  
 
8. 
The Conference of the Parties shall review, not later than its second meeting and 
thereafter on a regular basis, the effectiveness of the mechanism established under this 
Article, its ability to address the changing needs of the developing country Parties and Parties 
with economies in transition, the criteria and guidance referred to in paragraph 7, the level of 
funding as well as the effectiveness of the performance of the institutional entities entrusted to 
operate the financial mechanism.  It shall, based on such review, take appropriate action, if 
necessary, to improve the effectiveness of the mechanism, including by means of 
recommendations and guidance on measures to ensure adequate and sustainable funding to 
meet the needs of the Parties. 
 
Article 14 
 
Interim financial arrangements 
 
The institutional structure of the Global Environment Facility, operated in accordance 
with the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility, 
shall, on an interim basis, be the principal entity entrusted with the operations of the financial 
mechanism referred to in Article 13, for the period between the date of entry into force of this 
Convention and the first meeting of the Conference of the Parties, or until such time as the 
Conference of the Parties decides which institutional structure will be designated in 
accordance with Article 13.  The institutional structure of the Global Environment Facility 
should fulfill this function through operational measures related specifically to persistent 
organic pollutants taking into account that new arrangements for this area may be needed. 
 

 
16
Article 15 
 
Reporting 
 
1. 
Each Party shall report to the Conference of the Parties on the measures it has taken to 
implement the provisions of this Convention and on the effectiveness of such measures in 
meeting the objectives of the Convention. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall provide to the Secretariat: 
 
 
(a) 
Statistical data on its total quantities of production, import and export of each of 
the chemicals listed in Annex A and Annex B or a reasonable estimate of such data; and 
 
 
(b)  To the extent practicable, a list of the States from which it has imported each such 
substance and the States to which it has exported each such substance. 
 
3. 
Such reporting shall be at periodic intervals and in a format to be decided by the 
Conference of the Parties at its first meeting.  
 
Article 16 
 
Effectiveness evaluation 
 
1. 
Commencing four years after the date of entry into force of this Convention, and 
periodically thereafter at intervals to be decided by the Conference of the Parties, the 
Conference shall evaluate the effectiveness of this Convention. 
 
2. 
In order to facilitate such evaluation, the Conference of the Parties shall, at its first 
meeting, initiate the establishment of arrangements to provide itself with comparable 
monitoring data on the presence of the chemicals listed in Annexes A, B and C as well as their 
regional and global environmental transport.  These arrangements: 
 
 
(a) 
Should be implemented by the Parties on a regional basis when appropriate, in 
accordance with their technical and financial capabilities, using existing monitoring 
programmes and mechanisms to the extent possible and promoting harmonization of 
approaches; 
 
 
(b) 
May be supplemented where necessary, taking into account the differences 
between regions and their capabilities to implement monitoring activities; and 
 
 
(c) 
Shall include reports to the Conference of the Parties on the results of the 
monitoring activities on a regional and global basis at intervals to be specified by the 
Conference of the Parties. 
 
3. 
The evaluation described in paragraph 1 shall be conducted on the basis of available 
scientific, environmental, technical and economic information, including: 
 
(a) 
Reports and other monitoring information provided pursuant to paragraph 2; 
 
(b) 
National reports submitted pursuant to Article 15; and 
 

 
17
(c) 
Non-compliance information provided pursuant to the procedures established 
under Article 17. 
 
Article 17 
 
Non-compliance 
 
 
The Conference of the Parties shall, as soon as practicable, develop and approve 
procedures and institutional mechanisms for determining non-compliance with the provisions 
of this Convention and for the treatment of Parties found to be in non-compliance. 
 
Article 18 
 
Settlement of disputes 
 
1. 
Parties shall settle any dispute between them concerning the interpretation or 
application of this Convention through negotiation or other peaceful means of their own 
choice. 
 
2. 
When ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to the Convention, or at any time 
thereafter, a Party that is not a regional economic integration organization may declare in a 
written instrument submitted to the depositary that, with respect to any dispute concerning the 
interpretation or application of the Convention, it recognizes one or both of the following 
means of dispute settlement as compulsory in relation to any Party accepting the same 
obligation:  
 
(a) 
Arbitration in accordance with procedures to be adopted by the Conference of the 
Parties in an annex as soon as practicable;  
 
(b) 
Submission of the dispute to the International Court of Justice. 
 
3. 
A Party that is a regional economic integration organization may make a declaration 
with like effect in relation to arbitration in accordance with the procedure referred to in 
paragraph 2 (a). 
 
4. 
A declaration made pursuant to paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 shall remain in force until it 
expires in accordance with its terms or until three months after written notice of its revocation 
has been deposited with the depositary. 
 
5. 
The expiry of a declaration, a notice of revocation or a new declaration shall not in any 
way affect proceedings pending before an arbitral tribunal or the International Court of Justice 
unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree. 
 
6. 
If the parties to a dispute have not accepted the same or any procedure pursuant to 
paragraph 2, and if they have not been able to settle their dispute within twelve months 
following notification by one party to another that a dispute exists between them, the dispute 
shall be submitted to a conciliation commission at the request of any party to the dispute.  The 
conciliation commission shall render a report with recommendations.  Additional procedures 
relating to the conciliation commission shall be included in an annex to be adopted by the 
Conference of the Parties no later than at its second meeting. 
 

 
18
Article 19 
 
Conference of the Parties 
 
1. 
A Conference of the Parties is hereby established. 
 
2. 
The first meeting of the Conference of the Parties shall be convened by the Executive 
Director of the United Nations Environment Programme no later than one year after the entry 
into force of this Convention.  Thereafter, ordinary meetings of the Conference of the Parties 
shall be held at regular intervals to be decided by the Conference. 
 
3. 
Extraordinary meetings of the Conference of the Parties shall be held at such other 
times as may be deemed necessary by the Conference, or at the written request of any Party 
provided that it is supported by at least one third of the Parties. 
 
4. 
The Conference of the Parties shall by consensus agree upon and adopt at its first 
meeting rules of procedure and financial rules for itself and any subsidiary bodies, as well as 
financial provisions governing the functioning of the Secretariat. 
 
5. 
The Conference of the Parties shall keep under continuous review and evaluation the 
implementation of this Convention.  It shall perform the functions assigned to it by the 
Convention and, to this end, shall: 
 
(a) 
Establish, further to the requirements of paragraph 6, such subsidiary bodies as it 
considers necessary for the implementation of the Convention; 
 
 
(b) 
Cooperate, where appropriate, with competent international organizations and 
intergovernmental and non-governmental bodies; and 
 
 
 
(c) 
Regularly review all information made available to the Parties pursuant to Article 
15, including consideration of the effectiveness of  paragraph 2 (b) (iii) of Article 3; 
 
 
(d) 
Consider and undertake any additional action that may be required for the 
achievement of the objectives of the Convention. 
 
6. 
The Conference of the Parties shall, at its first meeting, establish a subsidiary body to be 
called the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee for the purposes of performing the 
functions assigned to that Committee by this Convention. In this regard:  
 
(a) 
The members of the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee shall be 
appointed by the Conference of the Parties.  Membership of the Committee shall consist of 
government-designated experts in chemical assessment or management.  The members of the 
Committee shall be appointed on the basis of equitable geographical distribution; 
 
 
(b) 
The Conference of the Parties shall decide on the 