dance with subparagraph (d); 
 
 
(d) 
Take appropriate measures so that such wastes, including products and articles 
upon becoming wastes, are: 
 
(i) 
Handled, collected, transported and stored in an environmentally sound 
manner;  
 
(ii) 
Disposed of in such a way that the persistent organic pollutant content is 
destroyed or irreversibly transformed so that they do not exhibit the 
characteristics of persistent organic pollutants or otherwise disposed of in an 
environmentally 
sound 
manner 
when 
destruction 
or 
irreversible 
transformation does not represent the environmentally preferable option or 
the persistent organic pollutant content is low, taking into account 
international rules, standards, and guidelines, including those that may be 
developed pursuant to paragraph 2, and  relevant global and regional 
regimes governing the management of hazardous wastes; 
 
(iii) Not permitted to be subjected to disposal operations that may lead to 
recovery, recycling, reclamation, direct reuse or alternative uses of 
persistent organic pollutants; and 
 
(iv) Not transported across international boundaries without taking into account 
relevant international rules, standards and guidelines; 
 
 
(e) 
Endeavour to develop appropriate strategies for identifying sites contaminated by 
chemicals listed in Annex A, B or C; if remediation of those sites is undertaken it shall be 
performed in an environmentally sound manner. 
 

 
9
2. 
The Conference of the Parties shall cooperate closely with the appropriate bodies of the 
Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and 
their Disposal to, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
Establish levels of destruction and irreversible transformation necessary to ensure 
that the characteristics of persistent organic pollutants as specified in paragraph 1 of Annex D 
are not exhibited;  
 
(b) 
Determine what they consider to be the methods that constitute environmentally 
sound disposal referred to above; and  
 
(c) 
Work to establish, as appropriate, the concentration levels of the chemicals listed 
in Annexes A, B and C in order to define the low persistent organic pollutant content referred 
to in paragraph 1 (d) (ii).  
 
Article 7 
 
Implementation plans 
 
1. 
Each Party shall: 
 
 
(a) 
Develop and endeavour to implement a plan for the implementation of its 
obligations under this Convention; 
 
 
(b) 
Transmit its implementation plan to the Conference of the Parties within two 
years of the date on which this Convention enters into force for it; and  
 
 
(c) 
Review and update, as appropriate, its implementation plan on a periodic basis 
and in a manner to be specified by a decision of the Conference of the Parties.  
 
2.  
The Parties shall, where appropriate, cooperate directly or through global, regional and 
subregional organizations, and consult their national stakeholders, including women’s groups 
and groups involved in the health of children, in order to facilitate the development, 
implementation and updating of their implementation plans. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall endeavour to utilize and, where necessary, establish the means to 
integrate national implementation plans for persistent organic pollutants in their sustainable 
development strategies where appropriate. 
 
Article 8 
 
Listing of chemicals in Annexes A, B and C 
 
1. 
A Party may submit a proposal to the Secretariat for listing a chemical in Annexes A, B 
and/or C.  The proposal shall contain the information specified in Annex D.  In developing a 
proposal, a Party may be assisted by other Parties and/or by the Secretariat. 
 
2. 
The Secretariat shall verify whether the proposal contains the information specified in 
Annex D.  If the Secretariat is satisfied that the proposal contains the information so specified, 
it shall forward the proposal to the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee. 
 

 
10
3. 
The Committee shall examine the proposal and apply the screening criteria specified in 
Annex D in a flexible and transparent way, taking all information provided into account in an 
integrative and balanced manner.   
 
4. 
If the Committee decides that: 
 
 
(a) 
It is satisfied that the screening criteria have been fulfilled, it shall, through the 
Secretariat, make the proposal and the evaluation of the Committee available to all Parties and 
observers and invite them to submit the information specified in Annex E; or 
 
 
(b) 
 It is not satisfied that the screening criteria have been fulfilled, it shall, through 
the Secretariat, inform all Parties and observers and make the proposal and the evaluation of 
the Committee available to all Parties and the proposal shall be set aside. 
 
5.   
Any Party may resubmit a proposal to the Committee that has been set aside by the 
Committee pursuant to paragraph 4.  The resubmission may include any concerns of the Party 
as well as a justification for additional consideration by the Committee.  If, following this 
procedure, the Committee again sets the proposal aside, the Party may challenge the decision 
of the Committee and the Conference of the Parties shall consider the matter at its next 
session.  The Conference of the Parties may decide, based on the screening criteria in Annex 
D and taking into account the evaluation of the Committee and any additional information 
provided by any Party or observer, that the proposal should proceed. 
 
6. 
Where the Committee has decided that the screening criteria have been fulfilled, or the 
Conference of the Parties has decided that the proposal should proceed, the Committee shall 
further review the proposal, taking into account any relevant additional information received, 
and shall prepare a draft risk profile in accordance with Annex E.  It shall, through the 
Secretariat, make that draft available to all Parties and observers, collect technical comments 
from them and, taking those comments into account, complete the risk profile.  
 
7. 
If, on the basis of the risk profile conducted in accordance with Annex E, the 
Committee decides: 
 
 
(a) 
That the chemical is likely as a result of its long-range environmental transport to 
lead to significant adverse human health and/or environmental effects such that global action 
is warranted, the proposal shall proceed.  Lack of full scientific certainty shall not prevent the 
proposal from proceeding.  The Committee shall, through the Secretariat, invite information 
from all Parties and observers relating to the considerations specified in Annex F.  It shall 
then prepare a risk management evaluation that includes an analysis of possible control 
measures for the chemical in accordance with that Annex; or 
 
 
(b) 
That the proposal should not proceed, it shall, through the Secretariat, make the 
risk profile available to all Parties and observers and set the proposal aside. 
 
8. 
For any proposal set aside pursuant to paragraph 7 (b), a Party may request the 
Conference of the Parties to consider instructing the Committee to invite additional 
information from the proposing Party and other Parties during a period not to exceed one 
year.  After that period and on the basis of any information received, the Committee shall 
reconsider the proposal pursuant to paragraph 6 with a priority to be decided by the 
Conference of the Parties.  If, following this procedure, the Committee again sets the proposal 
aside, the Party may challenge the decision of the Committee and the Conference of the 
Parties shall consider the matter at its next session.  The Conference of the Parties may 

 
11
decide, based on the risk profile prepared in accordance with Annex E and taking into account 
the evaluation of the Committee and any additional information provided by any Party or 
observer, that the proposal should proceed.  If the Conference of the Parties decides that the 
proposal shall proceed, the Committee shall then prepare the risk management evaluation.  
 
9. 
The Committee shall, based on the risk profile referred to in paragraph 6 and the risk 
management evaluation referred to in paragraph 7 (a) or paragraph 8, recommend whether the 
chemical should be considered by the Conference of the Parties for listing in Annexes A, B 
and/or C.  The Conference of the Parties, taking due account of the recommendations of the 
Committee, including any scientific uncertainty, shall decide, in a precautionary manner, 
whether to list the chemical, and specify its related control measures, in Annexes A, B and/or 
C. 
 
Article 9 
 
Information exchange 
 
1. 
Each Party shall facilitate or undertake the exchange of information relevant to: 
 
 
(a) 
The reduction or elimination of the production, use and release of persistent 
organic pollutants; and 
 
 
(b) 
Alternatives to persistent organic pollutants, including information relating to 
their risks as well as to their economic and social costs.  
 
2. 
The Parties shall exchange the information referred to in paragraph 1 directly or through 
the Secretariat. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall designate a national focal point for the exchange of such information. 
 
4. 
The Secretariat shall serve as a clearing-house mechanism for information on persistent 
organic pollutants, including information provided by Parties, intergovernmental 
organizations and non-governmental organizations.  
 
5. 
For the purposes of this Convention, information on health and safety of humans and 
the environment shall not be regarded as confidential. Parties that exchange other information 
pursuant to this Convention shall protect any confidential information as mutually agreed. 
 
Article 10 
 
Public information, awareness and education 
 
1. 
Each Party shall, within its capabilities, promote and facilitate: 
 
 
(a) 
Awareness among its policy and decision makers with regard to persistent organic 
pollutants; 
 
 
(b) 
Provision to the public of all available information on persistent organic 
pollutants, ta