STOCKHOLM CONVENTION ON PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS 
 
 
The Parties to this Convention, 
 
 
Recognizing that persistent organic pollutants possess toxic properties, resist 
degradation, bioaccumulate and are transported, through air, water and migratory species, 
across international boundaries and deposited far from their place of release, where they 
accumulate in terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, 
 
 
Aware of the health concerns, especially in developing countries, resulting from local 
exposure to persistent organic pollutants, in particular impacts upon women and, through 
them, upon future generations, 
 
 
Acknowledging that the Arctic ecosystems and indigenous communities are particularly 
at risk because of the biomagnification of persistent organic pollutants and that contamination 
of their traditional foods is a public health issue, 
 
 
Conscious of the need for global action on persistent organic pollutants, 
 
 
Mindful of decision 19/13 C of 7 February 1997 of the Governing Council of the 
United Nations Environment Programme to initiate international action to protect human 
health and the environment through measures which will reduce and/or eliminate emissions 
and discharges of persistent organic pollutants, 
 
 
Recalling the pertinent provisions of the relevant international environmental 
conventions, especially the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure 
for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade, and the Basel 
Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their 
Disposal including the regional agreements developed within the framework of its Article 11, 
 
 
Recalling also the pertinent provisions of the Rio Declaration on Environment and 
Development and Agenda 21, 
 
 
Acknowledging that precaution underlies the concerns of all the Parties and is 
embedded within this Convention, 
 
 
Recognizing that this Convention and other international agreements in the field of 
trade and the environment are mutually supportive, 
 
 
Reaffirming that States have, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and 
the principles of international law, the sovereign right to exploit their own resources 
pursuant to their own environmental and developmental policies, and the responsibility to 
ensure that activities within their jurisdiction or control do not cause damage to the 
environment of other States or of areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, 
 
 
Taking into account the circumstances and particular requirements of developing 
countries, in particular the least developed among them, and countries with economies in 
transition, especially the need to strengthen their national capabilities for the management of 
chemicals, including through the transfer of technology, the provision of financial and 
technical assistance and the promotion of cooperation among the Parties, 
 

 
2
 
Taking full account of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of 
Small Island Developing States, adopted in Barbados on 6 May 1994, 
 
 
Noting the respective capabilities of developed and developing countries, as well as the 
common but differentiated responsibilities of States as set forth in Principle 7 of the Rio 
Declaration on Environment and Development, 
 
 
Recognizing the important contribution that the private sector and non-governmental 
organizations can make to achieving the reduction and/or elimination of emissions and 
discharges of persistent organic pollutants, 
 
 
Underlining the importance of manufacturers of persistent organic pollutants taking 
responsibility for reducing adverse effects caused by their products and for providing 
information to users, Governments and the public on the hazardous properties of those 
chemicals, 
 
 
Conscious of the need to take measures to prevent adverse effects caused by persistent 
organic pollutants at all stages of their life cycle, 
 
 
Reaffirming Principle 16 of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development 
which states that national authorities should endeavour to promote the internalization of 
environmental costs and the use of economic instruments, taking into account the approach 
that the polluter should, in principle, bear the cost of pollution, with due regard to the public 
interest and without distorting international trade and investment, 
 
 
Encouraging Parties not having regulatory and assessment schemes for pesticides and 
industrial chemicals to develop such schemes, 
 
 
Recognizing the importance of developing and using environmentally sound alternative 
processes and chemicals, 
 
 
Determined to protect human health and the environment from the harmful impacts of 
persistent organic pollutants, 
 
 
Have agreed as follows: 
 
Article 1 
 
Objective 
 
 
Mindful of the precautionary approach as set forth in Principle 15 of the Rio 
Declaration on Environment and Development, the objective of this Convention is to protect 
human health and the environment from persistent organic pollutants.  
 
Article 2 
 
Definitions 
 
 
For the purposes of this Convention: 
 
 
(a) 
“Party” means a State or regional economic integration organization that has 
consented to be bound by this Convention and for which the Convention is in force; 

 
3
 
 
(b) 
“Regional economic integration organization” means an organization constituted 
by sovereign States of a given region to which its member States have transferred competence 
in respect of matters governed by this Convention and which has been duly authorized, in 
accordance with its internal procedures, to sign, ratify, accept, approve or accede to this 
Convention; 
 
 
(c) 
“Parties present and voting” means Parties present and casting an affirmative or 
negative vote. 
 
Article 3 
 
Measures to reduce or eliminate releases from intentional production and use 
 
1. 
Each Party shall: 
 
 
(a) 
Prohibit and/or take the legal and administrative measures necessary to eliminate: 
 
(i) 
Its production and use of the chemicals listed in Annex A subject to the 
provisions of that Annex; and  
 
(ii) 
Its import and export of the chemicals listed in Annex A in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2; and 
 
 
(b) 
Restrict its production and use of the chemicals listed in Annex B in accordance 
with the provisions of that Annex.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall take measures to ensure: 
 
 
(a) 
That a chemical listed in Annex A or Annex B is imported only: 
 
(i) 
For the purpose of environmentally sound disposal as set forth in paragraph 
1 (d) of Article 6; or 
 
(ii) 
For a use or purpose which is permitted for that Party under Annex A or 
Annex B; 
 
 
(b) 
That a chemical listed in Annex A for which any production or use specific 
exemption is in effect or a chemical listed in Annex B for which any production or use 
specific exemption or acceptable purpose is in effect, taking into account any relevant 
provisions in existing international prior informed consent instruments, is exported only: 
 
 (i) 
For the purpose of environmentally sound disposal as set forth in paragraph 
1 (d) of Article 6; 
 
 (ii) 
To a Party which is permitted to use that chemical under Annex A or 
Annex B; or 
 
 (iii) To a State not Party to this Convention which has provided an annual 
certification to the exporting Party.  Such certification shall specify the 
intended use of the chemical and include a statement that, with respect to 
that chemical, the importing State is committed to: 

 
4
 
a. 
Protect human health and the environment by taking the necessary 
measures to minimize or prevent releases; 
 
b. 
Comply with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 6; and 
 
c. 
Comply, where appropriate, with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part 
II of Annex B. 
 
The 
certification 
shall 
also 
include 
any 
appropriate 
supporting 
documentation, such as legislation, regulatory instruments, or administrative 
or policy guidelines.  The exporting Party shall transmit the certification to 
the Secretariat within sixty days of receipt.  
 
 
(c) 
That a chemical listed in Annex A, for which production and use specific 
exemptions are no longer in effect for any Party, is not exported from it except for the purpose 
of environmentally sound disposal as set forth in paragraph 1 (d) of Article 6; 
 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “State not Party to this Convention” 
shall include, with respect to a particular chemical, a State or regional economic integration 
organization that has not agreed to be bound by the Convention with respect to that chemical. 
 
3. 
Each Party that has one or more regulatory and assessment schemes for new pesticides 
or new industrial chemicals shall take measures to regulate with the aim of preventing the 
production and use of new pesticides or new industrial chemicals which, taking into 
consideration the criteria in paragraph 1 of Annex D, exhibit the characteristics of persistent 
organic pollutants. 
 
4. 
Each Party that has one or more regulatory and assessment schemes for pesticides or 
industrial chemicals shall, where appropriate, take into consideration within these schemes the 
criteria in paragraph 1 of Annex D when conducting assessments of pesticides or industrial 
chemicals currently in use. 
 
5. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Convention, paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to 
quantities of a chemical to be used for laboratory-scale research or as a reference standard. 
 
6. 
Any Party that has a specific exemption in accordance with Annex A or a specific 
exemption or an acceptable purpose in accordance with Annex B shall take appropriate 
measures to ensure that any production or use under such exemption or purpose is carried out 
in a manner that prevents or minimizes human exposure and release into the environment.  
For exempted uses or acceptable purposes that involve intentional release into the 
environment under conditions of normal use, such release shall be to the minimum extent 
necessary, taking into account any applicable standards and guidelines. 
 
Article 4 
 
Register of specific exemptions 
 
1. 
A Register is hereby established for the purpose of identifying the Parties that have 
specific exemptions listed in Annex A or Annex B.   It shall not identify Parties that make use 
of the provisions in Annex A or Annex B that may be exercised by all Parties.  The Register 
shall be maintained by the Secretariat and shall be available to the public.    

 
5
 
2. 
The Register shall include: 
 
(a) 
A list of the types of specific exemptions reproduced from Annex A and 
Annex B; 
 
(b) 
A list of the Parties that have a specific exemption listed under Annex A or 
Annex B; and 
 
(c) 
A list of the expiry dates for each registered specific exemption. 
 
3. 
Any State may, on becoming a Party, by means of a notification in writing to the 
Secretariat, register for one or more types of specific exemptions listed in Annex A or Annex 
B. 
 
4. 
Unless an earlier date is indicated in the Register by a Party, or an extension is granted 
pursuant to paragraph 7, all registrations of specific exemptions shall expire five years after 
the date of entry into force of this Convention with respect to a particular chemical. 
 
5. 
At its first meeting, the Conference of the Parties shall decide upon its review process 
for the entries in the Register. 
 
6. 
Prior to a review of an entry in the Register, the Party concerned shall submit a report to 
the Secretariat justifying its continuing need for registration of that exemption.  The report 
shall be circulated by the Secretariat to all Parties.  The review of a registration shall be 
carried out on the basis of all available information.  Thereupon, the Conference of the Parties 
may make such recommendations to the Party concerned as it deems appropriate. 
 
7. 
The Conference of the Parties may, upon request from the Party concerned, decide to 
extend the expiry date of a specific exemption for a period of up to five years.  In making its 
decision, the Conference of the Parties shall take due account of the special circumstances of 
the developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition. 
 
8. 
A Party may, at any time, withdraw an entry from the Register for a specific exemption 
upon written notification to the Secretariat.  The withdrawal shall take effect on the date 
specified in the notification. 
 
9. 
When there are no longer any Parties registered for a particular type of specific 
exemption, no new registrations may be made with respect to it. 
 
Article 5 
 
Measures to reduce or eliminate releases from unintentional production 
 
 
Each Party shall at a minimum take the following measures to reduce the total releases 
derived from anthropogenic sources of each of the chemicals listed in Annex C, with the goal 
of their continuing minimization and, where feasible, ultimate elimination: 
 
 
(a) 
Develop an action plan or, where appropriate, a regional or subregional action 
plan within two years of the date of entry into force of this Convention for it, and 
subsequently implement it as part of its implementation plan specified in Article 7, designed 
to identify, characterize and address the release of the chemicals listed in Annex C and to 

 
6
facilitate implementation of subparagraphs (b) to (e). The action plan shall include the 
following elements: 
 
(i) 
An evaluation of current and projected releases, including the development 
and maintenance of source inventories and release estimates, taking into 
consideration the source categories identified in Annex C; 
 
(ii) 
An evaluation of the efficacy of the laws and policies of the Party relating to 
the management of such releases; 
 
(iii) Strategies to meet the obligations of this paragraph, taking into account the 
evaluations in (i) and (ii); 
 
(iv) Steps to promote education and training with regard to, and awareness of, 
those strategies;  
 
(v) 
A review every five years of those strategies and of their success in meeting 
the obligations of this paragraph; such reviews shall be included in reports 
submitted pursuant to Article 15;  
 
(vi) A schedule for implementation of the action plan, including for the 
strategies and measures identified therein; 
 
 
(b) 
Promote the application of available, feasible and practical measures that can 
expeditiously achieve a realistic and meaningful level of release reduction or source 
elimination;  
 
 
(c) 
Promote the development and, where it deems appropriate, require the use of 
substitute or modified materials, products and processes to prevent the formation and release 
of the chemicals listed in Annex C, taking into consideration the general guidance on 
prevention and release reduction measures in Annex C and guidelines to be adopted by 
decision of the Conference of the Parties;  
 
 
(d) 
Promote and, in accordance with the implementation schedule of its action plan, 
require the use of best available techniques for new sources within source categories which a 
Party has identified as warranting such action in its action plan, with a particular initial focus 
on source categories identified in Part II of Annex C.  In any case, the requirement to use best 
available techniques for new sources in the categories listed in Part II of that Annex shall be 
phased in as soon as practicable but no later than four years after the entry into force of the 
Convention for that Party.  For the identified categories, Parties shall promote the use of best 
environmental practices.  When applying best available techniques and best environmental 
practices, Parties should take into consideration the general guidance on prevention and 
release reduction measures in that Annex and guidelines on best available techniques and best 
environmental practices to be adopted by decision of the Conference of the Parties; 
 
 
(e) 
Promote, in accordance with its action plan, the use of best available techniques 
and best environmental practices: 
 
(i) 
For existing sources, within the source categories listed in Part II of Annex 
C and within source categories such as those in Part III of that Annex; and 
 

 
7
(ii) 
For new sources, within source categories such as those listed in Part III of 
Annex C which a Party has not addressed under subparagraph (d). 
 
When applying best available techniques and best environmental practices, Parties should take 
into consideration the general guidance on prevention and release reduction measures in Annex 
C and guidelines on best available techniques and best environmental practices to be adopted 
by decision of the Conference of the Parties; 
 
 
(f) 
For the purposes of this paragraph and Annex C: 
 
(i) 
“Best available techniques” means the most effective and advanced stage in 
the development of activities and their methods of operation which indicate 
the practical suitability of particular techniques for providing in principle 
the basis for release limitations designed to prevent and, where that is not 
practicable, generally to reduce releases of chemicals listed in Part I of 
Annex C and their impact on the environment as a whole. In this regard: 
 
(ii) 
“Techniques” includes both the technology used and the way in which the 
installation is designed, built, maintained, operated and decommissioned; 
 
(iii) “Available” techniques means those techniques that are accessible to the 
operator and that are developed on a scale that allows implementation in the 
relevant industrial sector, under economically and technically viable 
conditions, taking into consideration the costs and advantages; and 
 
(iv) “Best” means most effective in achieving a high general level of protection 
of the environment as a whole; 
 
(v) 
“Best environmental practices” means the application of the most 
appropriate combination of environmental control measures and strategies; 
 
(vi) “New source” means any source of which the construction or substantial 
modification is commenced at least one year after the date of:  
 
a. 
Entry into force of this Convention for the Party concerned; or  
 
b. 
Entry into force for the Party concerned of an amendment to Annex C 
where the source becomes subject to the provisions of this 
Convention only by virtue of that amendment. 
 
 
(g) 
Release limit values or performance standards may be used by a Party to fulfill its 
commitments for best available techniques under this paragraph. 
 
Article 6 
 
Measures to reduce or eliminate releases from stockpiles and wastes 
 
1. 
In order to ensure that stockpiles consisting of or containing chemicals listed either in 
Annex A or Annex B and wastes, including products and articles upon becoming wastes, 
consisting of, containing or contaminated with a chemical listed in Annex A, B or C, are 
managed in a manner protective of human health and the environment, each Party shall: 
 

 
8
 
(a) 
Develop appropriate strategies for identifying:  
 
(i) 
Stockpiles consisting of or containing chemicals listed either in Annex A or 
Annex B; and 
 
(ii) 
Products and articles in use and wastes consisting of, containing or 
contaminated with a chemical listed in Annex A, B or C; 
 
 
(b) 
Identify, to the extent practicable, stockpiles consisting of or containing chemicals 
listed either in Annex A or Annex B on the basis of the strategies referred to in subparagraph 
(a); 
 
 
(c) 
Manage stockpiles, as appropriate, in a safe, efficient and environmentally sound 
manner.  Stockpiles of chemicals listed either in Annex A or Annex B, after they are no 
longer allowed to be used according to any specific exemption specified in Annex A or any 
specific exemption or acceptable purpose specified in Annex B, except stockpiles which are 
allowed to be exported according to paragraph 2 of Article 3, shall be deemed to be waste and 
shall be managed in accordance with subparagraph (d); 
 
 
(d) 
Take appropriate measures so that such wastes, including products and articles 
upon becoming wastes, are: 
 
(i) 
Handled, collected, transported and stored in an environmentally sound 
manner;  
 
(ii) 
Disposed of in such a way that the persistent organic pollutant content is 
destroyed or irreversibly transformed so that they do not exhibit the 
characteristics of persistent organic pollutants or otherwise disposed of in an 
environmentally 
sound 
manner 
when 
destruction 
or 
irreversible 
transformation does not represent the environmentally preferable option or 
the persistent organic pollutant content is low, taking into account 
international rules, standards, and guidelines, including those that may be 
developed pursuant to paragraph 2, and  relevant global and regional 
regimes governing the management of hazardous wastes; 
 
(iii) Not permitted to be subjected to disposal operations that may lead to 
recovery, recycling, reclamation, direct reuse or alternative uses of 
persistent organic pollutants; and 
 
(iv) Not transported across international boundaries without taking into account 
relevant international rules, standards and guidelines; 
 
 
(e) 
Endeavour to develop appropriate strategies for identifying sites contaminated by 
chemicals listed in Annex A, B or C; if remediation of those sites is undertaken it shall be 
performed in an environmentally sound manner. 
 

 
9
2. 
The Conference of the Parties shall cooperate closely with the appropriate bodies of the 
Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and 
their Disposal to, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
Establish levels of destruction and irreversible transformation necessary to ensure 
that the characteristics of persistent organic pollutants as specified in paragraph 1 of Annex D 
are not exhibited;  
 
(b) 
Determine what they consider to be the methods that constitute environmentally 
sound disposal referred to above; and  
 
(c) 
Work to establish, as appropriate, the concentration levels of the chemicals listed 
in Annexes A, B and C in order to define the low persistent organic pollutant content referred 
to in paragraph 1 (d) (ii).  
 
Article 7 
 
Implementation plans 
 
1. 
Each Party shall: 
 
 
(a) 
Develop and endeavour to implement a plan for the implementation of its 
obligations under this Convention; 
 
 
(b) 
Transmit its implementation plan to the Conference of the Parties within two 
years of the date on which this Convention enters into force for it; and  
 
 
(c) 
Review and update, as appropriate, its implementation plan on a periodic basis 
and in a manner to be specified by a decision of the Conference of the Parties.  
 
2.  
The Parties shall, where appropriate, cooperate directly or through global, regional and 
subregional organizations, and consult their national stakeholders, including women’s groups 
and groups involved in the health of children, in order to facilitate the development, 
implementation and updating of their implementation plans. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall endeavour to utilize and, where necessary, establish the means to 
integrate national implementation plans for persistent organic pollutants in their sustainable 
development strategies where appropriate. 
 
Article 8 
 
Listing of chemicals in Annexes A, B and C 
 
1. 
A Party may submit a proposal to the Secretariat for listing a chemical in Annexes A, B 
and/or C.  The proposal shall contain the information specified in Annex D.  In developing a 
proposal, a Party may be assisted by other Parties and/or by the Secretariat. 
 
2. 
The Secretariat shall verify whether the proposal contains the information specified in 
Annex D.  If the Secretariat is satisfied that the proposal contains the information so specified, 
it shall forward the proposal to the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee. 
 

 
10
3. 
The Committee shall examine the proposal and apply the screening criteria specified in 
Annex D in a flexible and transparent way, taking all information provided into account in an 
integrative and balanced manner.   
 
4. 
If the Committee decides that: 
 
 
(a) 
It is satisfied that the screening criteria have been fulfilled, it shall, through the 
Secretariat, make the proposal and the evaluation of the Committee available to all Parties and 
observers and invite them to submit the information specified in Annex E; or 
 
 
(b) 
 It is not satisfied that the screening criteria have been fulfilled, it shall, through 
the Secretariat, inform all Parties and observers and make the proposal and the evaluation of 
the Committee available to all Parties and the proposal shall be set aside. 
 
5.   
Any Party may resubmit a proposal to the Committee that has been set aside by the 
Committee pursuant to paragraph 4.  The resubmission may include any concerns of the Party 
as well as a justification for additional consideration by the Committee.  If, following this 
procedure, the Committee again sets the proposal aside, the Party may challenge the decision 
of the Committee and the Conference of the Parties shall consider the matter at its next 
session.  The Conference of the Parties may decide, based on the screening criteria in Annex 
D and taking into account the evaluation of the Committee and any additional information 
provided by any Party or observer, that the proposal should proceed. 
 
6. 
Where the Committee has decided that the screening criteria have been fulfilled, or the 
Conference of the Parties has decided that the proposal should proceed, the Committee shall 
further review the proposal, taking into account any relevant additional information received, 
and shall prepare a draft risk profile in accordance with Annex E.  It shall, through the 
Secretariat, make that draft available to all Parties and observers, collect technical comments 
from them and, taking those comments into account, complete the risk profile.  
 
7. 
If, on the basis of the risk profile conducted in accordance with Annex E, the 
Committee decides: 
 
 
(a) 
That the chemical is likely as a result of its long-range environmental transport to 
lead to significant adverse human health and/or environmental effects such that global action 
is warranted, the proposal shall proceed.  Lack of full scientific certainty shall not prevent the 
proposal from proceeding.  The Committee shall, through the Secretariat, invite information 
from all Parties and observers relating to the considerations specified in Annex F.  It shall 
then prepare a risk management evaluation that includes an analysis of possible control 
measures for the chemical in accordance with that Annex; or 
 
 
(b) 
That the proposal should not proceed, it shall, through the Secretariat, make the 
risk profile available to all Parties and observers and set the proposal aside. 
 
8. 
For any proposal set aside pursuant to paragraph 7 (b), a Party may request the 
Conference of the Parties to consider instructing the Committee to invite additional 
information from the proposing Party and other Parties during a period not to exceed one 
year.  After that period and on the basis of any information received, the Committee shall 
reconsider the proposal pursuant to paragraph 6 with a priority to be decided by the 
Conference of the Parties.  If, following this procedure, the Committee again sets the proposal 
aside, the Party may challenge the decision of the Committee and the Conference of the 
Parties shall consider the matter at its next session.  The Conference of the Parties may 

 
11
decide, based on the risk profile prepared in accordance with Annex E and taking into account 
the evaluation of the Committee and any additional information provided by any Party or 
observer, that the proposal should proceed.  If the Conference of the Parties decides that the 
proposal shall proceed, the Committee shall then prepare the risk management evaluation.  
 
9. 
The Committee shall, based on the risk profile referred to in paragraph 6 and the risk 
management evaluation referred to in paragraph 7 (a) or paragraph 8, recommend whether the 
chemical should be considered by the Conference of the Parties for listing in Annexes A, B 
and/or C.  The Conference of the Parties, taking due account of the recommendations of the 
Committee, including any scientific uncertainty, shall decide, in a precautionary manner, 
whether to list the chemical, and specify its related control measures, in Annexes A, B and/or 
C. 
 
Article 9 
 
Information exchange 
 
1. 
Each Party shall facilitate or undertake the exchange of information relevant to: 
 
 
(a) 
The reduction or elimination of the production, use and release of persistent 
organic pollutants; and 
 
 
(b) 
Alternatives to persistent organic pollutants, including information relating to 
their risks as well as to their economic and social costs.  
 
2. 
The Parties shall exchange the information referred to in paragraph 1 directly or through 
the Secretariat. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall designate a national focal point for the exchange of such information. 
 
4. 
The Secretariat shall serve as a clearing-house mechanism for information on persistent 
organic pollutants, including information provided by Parties, intergovernmental 
organizations and non-governmental organizations.  
 
5. 
For the purposes of this Convention, information on health and safety of humans and 
the environment shall not be regarded as confidential. Parties that exchange other information 
pursuant to this Convention shall protect any confidential information as mutually agreed. 
 
Article 10 
 
Public information, awareness and education 
 
1. 
Each Party shall, within its capabilities, promote and facilitate: 
 
 
(a) 
Awareness among its policy and decision makers with regard to persistent organic 
pollutants; 
 
 
(b) 
Provision to the public of all available information on persistent organic 
pollutants, taking into account paragraph 5 of Article 9;  
 

 
12
 
(c) 
Development and implementation, especially for women, children and the least 
educated, of educational and public awareness programmes on persistent organic pollutants, 
as well as on their health and environmental effects and on their alternatives;  
 
 
(d) 
Public participation in addressing persistent organic pollutants and their health 
and environmental effects and in developing adequate responses, including opportunities for 
providing input at the national level regarding implementation of this Convention;  
 
 
(e) 
Training of workers, scientists, educators and technical and managerial personnel; 
 
 
(f) 
Development and exchange of educational and public awareness materials at the 
national and international levels; and 
 
 
(g) 
Development and implementation of education and training programmes at the 
national and international levels. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall, within its capabilities, ensure that the public has access to the public 
information referred to in paragraph 1 and that the information is kept up-to-date.  
 
3. 
Each Party shall, within its capabilities, encourage industry and professional users to 
promote and facilitate the provision of the information referred to in paragraph 1 at the 
national level and, as appropriate, subregional, regional and global levels. 
 
4. 
In providing information on persistent organic pollutants and their alternatives, Parties 
may use safety data sheets, reports, mass media and other means of communication, and may 
establish information centres at national and regional levels. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall give sympathetic consideration to developing mechanisms, such as 
pollutant release and transfer registers, for the collection and dissemination of information on 
estimates of the annual quantities of the chemicals listed in Annex A, B or C that are released 
or disposed of. 
 
Article 11 
 
Research, development and monitoring 
 
1. 
The Parties shall, within their capabilities, at the national and international levels, 
encourage and/or undertake appropriate research, development, monitoring and cooperation 
pertaining to persistent organic pollutants and, where relevant, to their alternatives and to 
candidate persistent organic pollutants, including on their: 
 
(a) Sources and releases into the environment; 
 
(b) Presence, levels and trends in humans and the environment; 
 
(c) Environmental transport, fate and transformation; 
 
(d) Effects on human health and the environment;  
 
(e) Socio-economic and cultural impacts; 
 
(f) Release reduction and/or elimination; and 

 
13
 
(g) Harmonized methodologies for making inventories of generating sources and 
analytical techniques for the measurement of releases. 
 
2. 
In undertaking action under paragraph 1, the Parties shall, within their capabilities: 
 
(a) 
Support and further develop, as appropriate, international programmes, networks 
and organizations aimed at defining, conducting, assessing and financing research, data 
collection and monitoring, taking into account the need to minimize duplication of effort; 
 
 
(b) 
Support national and international efforts to strengthen national scientific and 
technical research capabilities, particularly in developing countries and countries with 
economies in transition, and to promote access to, and the exchange of, data and analyses; 
 
 
(c) 
Take into account the concerns and needs, particularly in the field of financial and 
technical resources, of developing countries and countries with economies in transition and 
cooperate in improving their capability to participate in the efforts referred to in 
subparagraphs (a) and (b); 
 
(d) 
Undertake research work geared towards alleviating the effects of persistent 
organic pollutants on reproductive health; 
 
 
(e) 
Make the results of their research, development and monitoring activities referred 
to in this paragraph accessible to the public on a timely and regular basis; and 
 
 
(f) 
Encourage and/or undertake cooperation with regard to storage and maintenance 
of information generated from research, development and monitoring. 
 
Article 12 
 
Technical assistance 
 
1. 
The Parties recognize that rendering of timely and appropriate technical assistance in 
response to requests from developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition 
is essential to the successful implementation of this Convention. 
 
2. 
The Parties shall cooperate to provide timely and appropriate technical assistance to 
developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition, to assist them, taking into 
account their particular needs, to develop and strengthen their capacity to implement their 
obligations under this Convention. 
 
3. 
In this regard, technical assistance to be provided by developed country Parties, and 
other Parties in accordance with their capabilities, shall include, as appropriate and as 
mutually agreed, technical assistance for capacity-building relating to implementation of the 
obligations under this Convention.  Further guidance in this regard shall be provided by the 
Conference of the Parties.  
 
4. 
The Parties shall establish, as appropriate, arrangements for the purpose of providing 
technical assistance and promoting the transfer of technology to developing country Parties 
and Parties with economies in transition relating to the implementation of this Convention.  
These arrangements shall include regional and subregional centres for capacity-building and 
transfer of technology to assist developing country Parties and Parties with economies in 

 
14
transition to fulfil their obligations under this Convention.  Further guidance in this regard 
shall be provided by the Conference of the Parties.  
 
5. 
The Parties shall, in the context of this Article, take full account of the specific needs 
and special situation of least developed countries and small island developing states in their 
actions with regard to technical assistance. 
 
Article 13 
 
Financial resources and mechanisms 
 
1. 
Each Party undertakes to provide, within its capabilities, financial support and 
incentives in respect of those national activities that are intended to achieve the objective of 
this Convention in accordance with its national plans, priorities and programmes. 
 
2. 
The developed country Parties shall provide new and additional financial resources to 
enable developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition to meet the agreed 
full incremental costs of implementing measures which fulfill their obligations under this 
Convention as agreed between a recipient Party and an entity participating in the mechanism 
described in paragraph 6.  Other Parties may also on a voluntary basis and in accordance with 
their capabilities provide such financial resources.  Contributions from other sources should 
also be encouraged.  The implementation of these commitments shall take into account the 
need for adequacy, predictability, the timely flow of funds and the importance of burden 
sharing among the contributing Parties.  
 
3. 
Developed country Parties, and other Parties in accordance with their capabilities and in 
accordance with their national plans, priorities and programmes, may also provide and 
developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition avail themselves of 
financial resources to assist in their implementation of this Convention through other bilateral, 
regional and multilateral sources or channels. 
 
4. 
The extent to which the developing country Parties will effectively implement their 
commitments under this Convention will depend on the effective implementation by 
developed country Parties of their commitments under this Convention relating to financial 
resources, technical assistance and technology transfer.  The fact that sustainable economic 
and social development and eradication of poverty are the first and overriding priorities of the 
developing country Parties will be taken fully into account, giving due consideration to the 
need for the protection of human health and the environment.  
 
5. 
The Parties shall take full account of the specific needs and special situation of the least 
developed countries and the small island developing states in their actions with regard to 
funding.   
 
6. 
A mechanism for the provision of adequate and sustainable financial resources to 
developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition on a grant or concessional 
basis to assist in their implementation of the Convention is hereby defined.  The mechanism 
shall function under the authority, as appropriate, and guidance of, and be accountable to the 
Conference of the Parties for the purposes of this Convention.  Its operation shall be entrusted 
to one or more entities, including existing international entities, as may be decided upon by 
the Conference of the Parties.  The mechanism may also include other entities providing 
multilateral, regional and bilateral financial and technical assistance.  Contributions to the 

 
15
mechanism shall be additional to other financial transfers to developing country Parties and 
Parties with economies in transition as reflected in, and in accordance with, paragraph 2. 
 
7. 
Pursuant to the objectives of this Convention and paragraph 6, the Conference of the 
Parties shall at its first meeting adopt appropriate guidance to be provided to the mechanism 
and shall agree with the entity or entities participating in the financial mechanism upon 
arrangements to give effect thereto.  The guidance shall address, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
The determination of the policy, strategy and programme priorities, as well as 
clear and detailed criteria and guidelines regarding eligibility for access to and utilization of 
financial resources including monitoring and evaluation on a regular basis of such utilization; 
 
(b) 
The provision by the entity or entities of regular reports to the Conference of the 
Parties on adequacy and sustainability of funding for activities relevant to the implementation 
of this Convention; 
 
(c) 
The promotion of multiple-source funding approaches, mechanisms and 
arrangements; 
 
(d) 
The modalities for the determination in a predictable and identifiable manner of 
the amount of funding necessary and available for the implementation of this Convention, 
keeping in mind that the phasing out of persistent organic pollutants might require sustained 
funding, and the conditions under which that amount shall be periodically reviewed; and 
 
(e) 
The modalities for the provision to interested Parties of assistance with needs 
assessment, information on available sources of funds and on funding patterns in order to 
facilitate coordination among them.  
 
8. 
The Conference of the Parties shall review, not later than its second meeting and 
thereafter on a regular basis, the effectiveness of the mechanism established under this 
Article, its ability to address the changing needs of the developing country Parties and Parties 
with economies in transition, the criteria and guidance referred to in paragraph 7, the level of 
funding as well as the effectiveness of the performance of the institutional entities entrusted to 
operate the financial mechanism.  It shall, based on such review, take appropriate action, if 
necessary, to improve the effectiveness of the mechanism, including by means of 
recommendations and guidance on measures to ensure adequate and sustainable funding to 
meet the needs of the Parties. 
 
Article 14 
 
Interim financial arrangements 
 
The institutional structure of the Global Environment Facility, operated in accordance 
with the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility, 
shall, on an interim basis, be the principal entity entrusted with the operations of the financial 
mechanism referred to in Article 13, for the period between the date of entry into force of this 
Convention and the first meeting of the Conference of the Parties, or until such time as the 
Conference of the Parties decides which institutional structure will be designated in 
accordance with Article 13.  The institutional structure of the Global Environment Facility 
should fulfill this function through operational measures related specifically to persistent 
organic pollutants taking into account that new arrangements for this area may be needed. 
 

 
16
Article 15 
 
Reporting 
 
1. 
Each Party shall report to the Conference of the Parties on the measures it has taken to 
implement the provisions of this Convention and on the effectiveness of such measures in 
meeting the objectives of the Convention. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall provide to the Secretariat: 
 
 
(a) 
Statistical data on its total quantities of production, import and export of each of 
the chemicals listed in Annex A and Annex B or a reasonable estimate of such data; and 
 
 
(b)  To the extent practicable, a list of the States from which it has imported each such 
substance and the States to which it has exported each such substance. 
 
3. 
Such reporting shall be at periodic intervals and in a format to be decided by the 
Conference of the Parties at its first meeting.  
 
Article 16 
 
Effectiveness evaluation 
 
1. 
Commencing four years after the date of entry into force of this Convention, and 
periodically thereafter at intervals to be decided by the Conference of the Parties, the 
Conference shall evaluate the effectiveness of this Convention. 
 
2. 
In order to facilitate such evaluation, the Conference of the Parties shall, at its first 
meeting, initiate the establishment of arrangements to provide itself with comparable 
monitoring data on the presence of the chemicals listed in Annexes A, B and C as well as their 
regional and global environmental transport.  These arrangements: 
 
 
(a) 
Should be implemented by the Parties on a regional basis when appropriate, in 
accordance with their technical and financial capabilities, using existing monitoring 
programmes and mechanisms to the extent possible and promoting harmonization of 
approaches; 
 
 
(b) 
May be supplemented where necessary, taking into account the differences 
between regions and their capabilities to implement monitoring activities; and 
 
 
(c) 
Shall include reports to the Conference of the Parties on the results of the 
monitoring activities on a regional and global basis at intervals to be specified by the 
Conference of the Parties. 
 
3. 
The evaluation described in paragraph 1 shall be conducted on the basis of available 
scientific, environmental, technical and economic information, including: 
 
(a) 
Reports and other monitoring information provided pursuant to paragraph 2; 
 
(b) 
National reports submitted pursuant to Article 15; and 
 

 
17
(c) 
Non-compliance information provided pursuant to the procedures established 
under Article 17. 
 
Article 17 
 
Non-compliance 
 
 
The Conference of the Parties shall, as soon as practicable, develop and approve 
procedures and institutional mechanisms for determining non-compliance with the provisions 
of this Convention and for the treatment of Parties found to be in non-compliance. 
 
Article 18 
 
Settlement of disputes 
 
1. 
Parties shall settle any dispute between them concerning the interpretation or 
application of this Convention through negotiation or other peaceful means of their own 
choice. 
 
2. 
When ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to the Convention, or at any time 
thereafter, a Party that is not a regional economic integration organization may declare in a 
written instrument submitted to the depositary that, with respect to any dispute concerning the 
interpretation or application of the Convention, it recognizes one or both of the following 
means of dispute settlement as compulsory in relation to any Party accepting the same 
obligation:  
 
(a) 
Arbitration in accordance with procedures to be adopted by the Conference of the 
Parties in an annex as soon as practicable;  
 
(b) 
Submission of the dispute to the International Court of Justice. 
 
3. 
A Party that is a regional economic integration organization may make a declaration 
with like effect in relation to arbitration in accordance with the procedure referred to in 
paragraph 2 (a). 
 
4. 
A declaration made pursuant to paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 shall remain in force until it 
expires in accordance with its terms or until three months after written notice of its revocation 
has been deposited with the depositary. 
 
5. 
The expiry of a declaration, a notice of revocation or a new declaration shall not in any 
way affect proceedings pending before an arbitral tribunal or the International Court of Justice 
unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree. 
 
6. 
If the parties to a dispute have not accepted the same or any procedure pursuant to 
paragraph 2, and if they have not been able to settle their dispute within twelve months 
following notification by one party to another that a dispute exists between them, the dispute 
shall be submitted to a conciliation commission at the request of any party to the dispute.  The 
conciliation commission shall render a report with recommendations.  Additional procedures 
relating to the conciliation commission shall be included in an annex to be adopted by the 
Conference of the Parties no later than at its second meeting. 
 

 
18
Article 19 
 
Conference of the Parties 
 
1. 
A Conference of the Parties is hereby established. 
 
2. 
The first meeting of the Conference of the Parties shall be convened by the Executive 
Director of the United Nations Environment Programme no later than one year after the entry 
into force of this Convention.  Thereafter, ordinary meetings of the Conference of the Parties 
shall be held at regular intervals to be decided by the Conference. 
 
3. 
Extraordinary meetings of the Conference of the Parties shall be held at such other 
times as may be deemed necessary by the Conference, or at the written request of any Party 
provided that it is supported by at least one third of the Parties. 
 
4. 
The Conference of the Parties shall by consensus agree upon and adopt at its first 
meeting rules of procedure and financial rules for itself and any subsidiary bodies, as well as 
financial provisions governing the functioning of the Secretariat. 
 
5. 
The Conference of the Parties shall keep under continuous review and evaluation the 
implementation of this Convention.  It shall perform the functions assigned to it by the 
Convention and, to this end, shall: 
 
(a) 
Establish, further to the requirements of paragraph 6, such subsidiary bodies as it 
considers necessary for the implementation of the Convention; 
 
 
(b) 
Cooperate, where appropriate, with competent international organizations and 
intergovernmental and non-governmental bodies; and 
 
 
 
(c) 
Regularly review all information made available to the Parties pursuant to Article 
15, including consideration of the effectiveness of  paragraph 2 (b) (iii) of Article 3; 
 
 
(d) 
Consider and undertake any additional action that may be required for the 
achievement of the objectives of the Convention. 
 
6. 
The Conference of the Parties shall, at its first meeting, establish a subsidiary body to be 
called the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee for the purposes of performing the 
functions assigned to that Committee by this Convention. In this regard:  
 
(a) 
The members of the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee shall be 
appointed by the Conference of the Parties.  Membership of the Committee shall consist of 
government-designated experts in chemical assessment or management.  The members of the 
Committee shall be appointed on the basis of equitable geographical distribution; 
 
 
(b) 
The Conference of the Parties shall decide on the terms of reference, organization 
and operation of the Committee; and 
 
 
(c) 
The Committee shall make every effort to adopt its recommendations by 
consensus.  If all efforts at consensus have been exhausted, and no consensus reached, such 
recommendation shall as a last resort be adopted by a two-thirds majority vote of the members 
present and voting. 
 

 
19
7. 
The Conference of the Parties shall, at its third meeting, evaluate the continued need for 
the procedure contained in paragraph 2 (b) of Article 3, including consideration of its 
effectiveness. 
 
8. 
The United Nations, its specialized agencies and the International Atomic Energy 
Agency, as well as any State not Party to this Convention, may be represented at meetings of 
the Conference of the Parties as observers.  Any body or agency, whether national or 
international, governmental or non-governmental, qualified in matters covered by the 
Convention, and which has informed the Secretariat of its wish to be represented at a meeting 
of the Conference of the Parties as an observer may be admitted unless at least one third of the 
Parties present object.  The admission and participation of observers shall be subject to the 
rules of procedure adopted by the Conference of the Parties. 
 
Article 20 
 
Secretariat 
 
1. 
A Secretariat is hereby established. 
 
2. 
The functions of the Secretariat shall be: 
 
(a) 
To make arrangements for meetings of the Conference of the Parties and its 
subsidiary bodies and to provide them with services as required; 
 
 
(b) 
To facilitate assistance to the Parties, particularly developing country Parties and 
Parties with economies in transition, on request, in the implementation of this Convention; 
 
 
(c) 
To ensure the necessary coordination with the secretariats of other relevant 
international bodies; 
 
 
(d) 
To prepare and make available to the Parties periodic reports based on 
information received pursuant to Article 15 and other available information; 
 
 
(e) 
To enter, under the overall guidance of the Conference of the Parties, into such 
administrative and contractual arrangements as may be required for the effective discharge of 
its functions; and  
 
 
(f) 
To perform the other secretariat functions specified in this Convention and such 
other functions as may be determined by the Conference of the Parties. 
 
3. 
The secretariat functions for this Convention shall be performed by the Executive 
Director of the United Nations Environment Programme, unless the Conference of the Parties 
decides, by a three-fourths majority of the Parties present and voting, to entrust the secretariat 
functions to one or more other international organizations. 
 
Article 21 
 
Amendments to the Convention 
 
1. 
Amendments to this Convention may be proposed by any Party. 
 

 
20
2. 
Amendments to this Convention shall be adopted at a meeting of the Conference of the 
Parties.  The text of any proposed amendment shall be communicated to the Parties by the 
Secretariat at least six months before the meeting at which it is proposed for adoption.  The 
Secretariat shall also communicate proposed amendments to the signatories to this 
Convention and, for information, to the depositary. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall make every effort to reach agreement on any proposed amendment to 
this Convention by consensus.  If all efforts at consensus have been exhausted, and no 
agreement reached, the amendment shall as a last resort be adopted by a three-fourths 
majority vote of the Parties present and voting.  
 
4. 
The amendment shall be communicated by the depositary to all Parties for ratification, 
acceptance or approval. 
 
5. 
Ratification, acceptance or approval of an amendment shall be notified to the depositary 
in writing.  An amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 3 shall enter into force for 
the Parties having accepted it on the ninetieth day after the date of deposit of instruments of 
ratification, acceptance or approval by at least three-fourths of the Parties.  Thereafter, the 
amendment shall enter into force for any other Party on the ninetieth day after the date on 
which that Party deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the 
amendment. 
 
Article 22 
 
Adoption and amendment of annexes 
 
1. 
Annexes to this Convention shall form an integral part thereof and, unless expressly 
provided otherwise, a reference to this Convention constitutes at the same time a reference to 
any annexes thereto. 
 
2. 
Any additional annexes shall be restricted to procedural, scientific, technical or 
administrative matters. 
 
3. 
The following procedure shall apply to the proposal, adoption and entry into force of 
additional annexes to this Convention: 
 
(a) 
Additional annexes shall be proposed and adopted according to the procedure laid 
down in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Article 21;  
 
 
(b) 
Any Party that is unable to accept an additional annex shall so notify the 
depositary, in writing, within one year from the date of communication by the depositary of 
the adoption of the additional annex.  The depositary shall without delay notify all Parties of 
any such notification received.  A Party may at any time withdraw a previous notification of 
non-acceptance in respect of any additional annex, and the annex shall thereupon enter into 
force for that Party subject to subparagraph (c); and 
 
 
(c) 
On the expiry of one year from the date of the communication by the depositary 
of the adoption of an additional annex, the annex shall enter into force for all Parties that have 
not submitted a notification in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (b). 
 
4. 
The proposal, adoption and entry into force of amendments to Annex A, B or C shall be 
subject to the same procedures as for the proposal, adoption and entry into force of additional 

 
21
annexes to this Convention, except that an amendment to Annex A, B or C shall not enter into 
force with respect to any Party that has made a declaration with respect to amendment to 
those Annexes in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 25, in which case any such 
amendment shall enter into force for such a Party on the ninetieth day after the date of deposit 
with the depositary of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with 
respect to such amendment. 
 
5. 
The following procedure shall apply to the proposal, adoption and entry into force of an 
amendment to Annex D, E or F: 
 
(a) 
Amendments shall be proposed according to the procedure in paragraphs 1 and 2 
of Article 21; 
 
(b) 
The Parties shall take decisions on an amendment to Annex D, E or F by 
consensus; and 
 
(c) 
A decision to amend Annex D, E or F shall forthwith be communicated to the 
Parties by the depositary.  The amendment shall enter into force for all Parties on a date to be 
specified in the decision. 
 
6. 
If an additional annex or an amendment to an annex is related to an amendment to this 
Convention, the additional annex or amendment shall not enter into force until such time as 
the amendment to the Convention enters into force. 
 
Article 23 
 
Right to vote 
 
1. 
Each Party to this Convention shall have one vote, except as provided for in paragraph 
2. 
 
2. 
A regional economic integration organization, on matters within its competence, shall 
exercise its right to vote with a number of votes equal to the number of its member States that 
are Parties to this Convention.  Such an organization shall not exercise its right to vote if any 
of its member States exercises its right to vote, and vice versa. 
 
Article 24 
 
Signature 
 
This Convention shall be open for signature at Stockholm by all States and regional 
economic integration organizations on 23 May 2001, and at the United Nations Headquarters 
in New York from 24 May 2001 to 22 May 2002. 
 
Article 25 
 
Ratification, acceptance, approval or accession 
 
1. 
This Convention shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by States and by 
regional economic integration organizations.  It shall be open for accession by States and by 
regional economic integration organizations from the day after the date on which the 

 
22
Convention is closed for signature.  Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or 
accession shall be deposited with the depositary. 
 
2. 
Any regional economic integration organization that becomes a Party to this 
Convention without any of its member States being a Party shall be bound by all the 
obligations under the Convention.  In the case of such organizations, one or more of whose 
member States is a Party to this Convention, the organization and its member States shall 
decide on their respective responsibilities for the performance of their obligations under the 
Convention.  In such cases, the organization and the member States shall not be entitled to 
exercise rights under the Convention concurrently. 
 
3. 
In its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, a regional economic 
integration organization shall declare the extent of its competence in respect of the matters 
governed by this Convention.  Any such organization shall also inform the depositary, who 
shall in turn inform the Parties, of any relevant modification in the extent of its competence. 
 
4. 
In its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, any Party may 
declare that, with respect to it, any amendment to Annex A, B or C shall enter into force only 
upon the deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with 
respect thereto. 
 
Article 26 
 
Entry into force 
 
1. 
This Convention shall enter into force on the ninetieth day after the date of deposit of 
the fiftieth instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession. 
 
2. 
For each State or regional economic integration organization that ratifies, accepts or 
approves this Convention or accedes thereto after the deposit of the fiftieth instrument of 
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, the Convention shall enter into force on the 
ninetieth day after the date of deposit by such State or regional economic integration 
organization of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession. 
 
3. 
For the purpose of paragraphs 1 and 2, any instrument deposited by a regional economic 
integration organization shall not be counted as additional to those deposited by member 
States of that organization. 
 
Article 27 
 
Reservations 
 
No reservations may be made to this Convention. 
 
Article 28 
 
Withdrawal 
 
1. 
At any time after three years from the date on which this Convention has entered into 
force for a Party, that Party may withdraw from the Convention by giving written notification 
to the depositary. 
 

 
23
2. 
Any such withdrawal shall take effect upon the expiry of one year from the date of 
receipt by the depositary of the notification of withdrawal, or on such later date as may be 
specified in the notification of withdrawal. 
 
Article 29 
 
Depositary 
 
The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall be the depositary of this 
Convention. 
 
Article 30 
 
Authentic texts 
 
The original of this Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, 
Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-General 
of the United Nations. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized to that effect, have 
signed this Convention.  
 
Done at Stockholm on this twenty-second day of May, two thousand and one. 
 

 
24
 
Annex A 
 
ELIMINATION 
 
Part I 
 
Chemical 
Activity 
Specific exemption 
Aldrin* 
CAS No: 309-00-2 
Production 
None 
Use 
Local ectoparasiticide 
Insecticide 
Chlordane* 
CAS No: 57-74-9 
Production 
As allowed for the Parties listed in the 
Register 
Use 
Local ectoparasiticide 
Insecticide  
Termiticide 
Termiticide in buildings and dams 
Termiticide in roads 
Additive in plywood adhesives 
Dieldrin* 
CAS No: 60-57-1 
Production 
None 
Use 
In agricultural operations 
Endrin* 
CAS No: 72-20-8 
 
Production 
None 
Use 
None 
Heptachlor* 
CAS No: 76-44-8 
Production 
None 
Use 
Termiticide  
Termiticide in structures of houses 
Termiticide (subterranean) 
Wood treatment   
In use in underground cable boxes 
Hexachlorobenzene 
CAS No: 118-74-1 
Production 
As allowed for the Parties listed in the 
Register 
Use 
Intermediate 
Solvent in pesticide 
Closed system site limited intermediate
Mirex* 
CAS No: 2385-85-5 
 
Production 
As allowed for the Parties listed in the 
Register 
Use 
Termiticide 
Toxaphene* 
CAS No: 8001-35-2 
 
 
Production 
None 
Use 
None 
Polychlorinated 
Biphenyls (PCB)* 
Production 
None 
Use 
Articles in use in accordance with the 
provisions of Part II of this Annex 
 
 

 
25
Notes: 
 
(i) 
Except as otherwise specified in this Convention, quantities of a chemical 
occurring as unintentional trace contaminants in products and articles shall not be 
considered to be listed in this Annex; 
 
(ii) 
This note shall not be considered as a production and use specific exemption for 
purposes of paragraph 2 of Article 3.  Quantities of a chemical occurring as 
constituents of articles manufactured or already in use before or on the date of 
entry into force of the relevant obligation with respect to that chemical, shall not 
be considered as listed in this Annex, provided that a Party has notified the 
Secretariat that a particular type of article remains in use within that Party. The 
Secretariat shall make such notifications publicly available; 
 
(iii) This note, which does not apply to a chemical that has an asterisk following its 
name in the Chemical column in Part I of this Annex, shall not be considered as a 
production and use specific exemption for purposes of paragraph 2 of Article 3. 
Given that no significant quantities of the chemical are expected to reach humans 
and the environment during the production and use of a closed-system site-limited 
intermediate, a Party, upon notification to the Secretariat, may allow the 
production and use of quantities of a chemical listed in this Annex as a closed-
system site-limited intermediate that is chemically transformed in the manufacture 
of other chemicals that, taking into consideration the criteria in paragraph 1 of 
Annex D, do not exhibit the characteristics of persistent organic pollutants.  This 
notification shall include information on total production and use of such 
chemical or a reasonable estimate of such information and information regarding 
the nature of the closed-system site-limited process including the amount of any 
non-transformed and unintentional trace contamination of the persistent organic 
pollutant-starting material in the final product.  This procedure applies except as 
otherwise specified in this Annex.  The Secretariat shall make such notifications 
available to the Conference of the Parties and to the public.  Such production or 
use shall not be considered a production or use specific exemption.  Such 
production and use shall cease after a ten-year period, unless the Party concerned 
submits a new notification to the Secretariat, in which case the period will be 
extended for an additional ten years unless the Conference of the Parties, after a 
review of the production and use decides otherwise.  The notification procedure 
can be repeated; 
 
(iv) All the specific exemptions in this Annex may be exercised by Parties that have 
registered exemptions in respect of them in accordance with Article 4 with the 
exception of the use of polychlorinated biphenyls in articles in use in accordance 
with the provisions of Part II of this Annex, which may be exercised by all 
Parties. 
 

 
26
Part II 
 
Polychlorinated biphenyls 
 
 
Each Party shall: 
 
 
(a) 
With regard to the elimination of the use of polychlorinated biphenyls in 
equipment (e.g. transformers, capacitors or other receptacles containing liquid stocks) by 
2025, subject to review by the Conference of the Parties, take action in accordance with the 
following priorities: 
 
(i) 
Make determined efforts to identify, label and remove from use equipment 
containing greater than 10 per cent polychlorinated biphenyls and volumes 
greater than 5 litres; 
 
(ii) 
Make determined efforts to identify, label and remove from use equipment 
containing greater than 0.05 per cent polychlorinated biphenyls and volumes 
greater than 5 litres; 
 
(iii) Endeavour to identify and remove from use equipment containing greater 
than 0.005 percent polychlorinated biphenyls and volumes greater than 0.05 
litres; 
 
 
(b) 
Consistent with the priorities in subparagraph (a), promote the following 
measures to reduce exposures and risk to control the use of polychlorinated biphenyls: 
 
(i) 
Use only in intact and non-leaking equipment and only in areas where the 
risk from environmental release can be minimised and quickly remedied; 
 
(ii) 
Not use in equipment in areas associated with the production or processing 
of food or feed; 
 
(iii) When used in populated areas, including schools and hospitals, all 
reasonable measures to protect from electrical failure which could result in a 
fire, and regular inspection of equipment for leaks; 
 
 
(c) 
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of Article 3, ensure that equipment containing 
polychlorinated biphenyls, as described in subparagraph (a), shall not be exported or imported 
except for the purpose of environmentally sound waste management; 
 
 
(d) 
Except for maintenance and servicing operations, not allow recovery for the 
purpose of reuse in other equipment of liquids with polychlorinated biphenyls content above 
0.005 per cent; 
 
 
(e) 
Make determined efforts designed to lead to environmentally sound waste 
management of liquids containing polychlorinated biphenyls and equipment contaminated 
with polychlorinated biphenyls having a polychlorinated biphenyls content above 0.005 per 
cent, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 6, as soon as possible but no later than 2028, 
subject to review by the Conference of the Parties; 
 

 
27
(f) 
In lieu of note (ii) in Part I of this Annex, endeavour to identify other articles 
containing more than 0.005 per cent polychlorinated biphenyls (e.g. cable-sheaths, cured 
caulk and painted objects) and manage them in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 6; 
 
(g) 
Provide a report every five years on progress in eliminating polychlorinated 
biphenyls and submit it to the Conference of the Parties pursuant to Article 15; 
 
(h) 
The reports described in subparagraph (g) shall, as appropriate, be considered by 
the Conference of the Parties in its reviews relating to polychlorinated biphenyls.  The 
Conference of the Parties shall review progress towards elimination of polychlorinated 
biphenyls at five year intervals or other period, as appropriate, taking into account such 
reports.  
 

 
28
 
Annex B 
 
RESTRICTION 
 
Part I 
 
Chemical 
Activity 
Acceptable purpose 
or specific exemption 
DDT 
(1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis 
(4-chlorophenyl)ethane) 
CAS No: 50-29-3 
Production 
Acceptable purpose: 
Disease vector control use in  accordance 
with Part II of this Annex 
Specific exemption: 
Intermediate in production of dicofol 
Intermediate 
Use 
Acceptable purpose: 
Disease vector control in accordance with 
Part II of this Annex 
Specific exemption: 
Production of dicofol 
Intermediate 
 
Notes: 
 
(i) 
Except as otherwise specified in this Convention, quantities of a chemical 
occurring as unintentional trace contaminants in products and articles shall not be 
considered to be listed in this Annex; 
 
(ii) 
This note shall not be considered as a production and use acceptable purpose or 
specific exemption for purposes of paragraph 2 of Article 3.  Quantities of a 
chemical occurring as constituents of articles manufactured or already in use 
before or on the date of entry into force of the relevant obligation with respect to 
that chemical, shall not be considered as listed in this Annex, provided that a Party 
has notified the Secretariat that a particular type of article remains in use within 
that Party.  The Secretariat shall make such notifications publicly available; 
 
(iii) This note shall not be considered as a production and use specific exemption for 
purposes of paragraph 2 of Article 3.  Given that no significant quantities of the 
chemical are expected to reach humans and the environment during the production 
and use of a closed-system site-limited intermediate, a Party, upon notification to 
the Secretariat, may allow the production and use of quantities of a chemical listed 
in this Annex as a closed-system site-limited intermediate that is chemically 
transformed in the manufacture of other chemicals that, taking into consideration 
the criteria in paragraph 1 of Annex D, do not exhibit the characteristics of 
persistent organic pollutants.  This notification shall include information on total 
production and use of such chemical or a reasonable estimate of such information 
and information regarding the nature of the closed-system site-limited process 
including the amount of any non-transformed and unintentional trace 
contamination of the persistent organic pollutant-starting material in the final 
product.  This procedure applies except as otherwise specified in this Annex.  The 

 
29
Secretariat shall make such notifications available to the Conference of the Parties 
and to the public.  Such production or use shall not be considered a production or 
use specific exemption.  Such production and use shall cease after a ten-year 
period, unless the Party concerned submits a new notification to the Secretariat, in 
which case the period will be extended for an additional ten years unless the 
Conference of the Parties, after a review of the production and use decides 
otherwise.  The notification procedure can be repeated; 
 
(iv) All the specific exemptions in this Annex may be exercised by Parties that have 
registered in respect of them in accordance with Article 4.  
 
Part II 
DDT (1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane) 
1. 
The production and use of DDT shall be eliminated except for Parties that have notified 
the Secretariat of their intention to produce and/or use it.  A DDT Register is hereby 
established and shall be available to the public.  The Secretariat shall maintain the DDT 
Register. 
2. 
Each Party that produces and/or uses DDT shall restrict such production and/or use for 
disease vector control in accordance with the World Health Organization recommendations 
and guidelines on the use of DDT and when locally safe, effective and affordable alternatives 
are not available to the Party in question. 
3. 
In the event that a Party not listed in the DDT Register determines that it requires DDT 
for disease vector control, it shall notify the Secretariat as soon as possible in order to have its 
name added forthwith to the DDT Register.  It shall at the same time notify the World Health 
Organization.  
4. 
Every three years, each Party that uses DDT shall provide to the Secretariat and the 
World Health Organization information on the amount used, the conditions of such use and its 
relevance to that Party’s disease management strategy, in a format to be decided by the 
Conference of the Parties in consultation with the World Health Organization. 
5. 
With the goal of reducing and ultimately eliminating the use of DDT, the Conference of 
the Parties shall encourage: 
 
(a) 
Each Party using DDT to develop and implement an action plan as part of the 
implementation plan specified in Article 7.  That action plan shall include: 
(i) 
Development of regulatory and other mechanisms to ensure that DDT use is 
restricted to disease vector control; 
(ii) 
Implementation of suitable alternative products, methods and strategies, 
including resistance management strategies to ensure the continuing 
effectiveness of these alternatives; 
(iii) Measures to strengthen health care and to reduce the incidence of the 
disease. 
(b) 
The Parties, within their capabilities, to promote research and development of safe 
alternative chemical and non-chemical products, methods and strategies for Parties using 
DDT, relevant to the conditions of those countries and with the goal of decreasing the human 

 
30
and economic burden of disease.  Factors to be promoted when considering alternatives or 
combinations of alternatives shall include the human health risks and environmental 
implications of such alternatives.  Viable alternatives to DDT shall pose less risk to human 
health and the environment, be suitable for disease control based on conditions in the Parties 
in question and be supported with monitoring data. 
 
6. 
Commencing at its first meeting, and at least every three years thereafter, the 
Conference of the Parties shall, in consultation with the World Health Organization, evaluate 
the continued need for DDT for disease vector control on the basis of available scientific, 
technical, environmental and economic information, including: 
 
(a) 
The production and use of DDT and the conditions set out in paragraph 2;  
 
(b) 
The availability, suitability and implementation of the alternatives to DDT; and 
 
(c) 
Progress in strengthening the capacity of countries to transfer safely to reliance on 
such alternatives. 
7. 
A Party may, at any time, withdraw its name from the DDT Registry upon written 
notification to the Secretariat.  The withdrawal shall take effect on the date specified in the 
notification. 

 
31
 
Annex C 
 
UNINTENTIONAL PRODUCTION 
 
Part I: Persistent organic pollutants subject to the requirements of Article 5 
 
 
This Annex applies to the following persistent organic pollutants when formed and 
released unintentionally from anthropogenic sources: 
 
Chemical 
Polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/PCDF) 
Hexachlorobenzene (HCB) (CAS No: 118-74-1) 
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) 
 
Part II:  Source categories 
 
 
Polychlorinated 
dibenzo-p-dioxins 
and 
dibenzofurans, hexachlorobenzene and 
polychlorinated biphenyls are unintentionally formed and released from thermal processes 
involving organic matter and chlorine as a result of incomplete combustion or chemical 
reactions. The following industrial source categories have the potential for comparatively high 
formation and release of these chemicals to the environment: 
 
 
(a) 
Waste incinerators, including co-incinerators of municipal, hazardous or medical 
waste or of sewage sludge; 
 
 
(b) 
Cement kilns firing hazardous waste; 
 
 
(c) 
Production of pulp using elemental chlorine or chemicals generating elemental 
chlorine for bleaching; 
 
 
(d) 
The following thermal processes in the metallurgical industry: 
 
 (i) 
Secondary copper production; 
 
 (ii) 
Sinter plants in the iron and steel industry; 
  
 (iii) Secondary aluminium production; 
  
 (iv) Secondary zinc production. 
 
Part III:  Source categories 
 
 
Polychlorinated 
dibenzo-p-dioxins 
and 
dibenzofurans, hexachlorobenzene and 
polychlorinated biphenyls may also be unintentionally formed and released from the 
following source categories, including: 
 
 
(a) 
Open burning of waste, including burning of landfill sites; 
 
 (b) 
Thermal processes in the metallurgical industry not mentioned in Part II; 
 

 
32
 (c) 
Residential combustion sources; 
 
(d) 
Fossil fuel-fired utility and industrial boilers; 
 
 
(e) 
Firing installations for wood and other biomass fuels; 
 
(f) 
Specific chemical production processes releasing unintentionally formed 
persistent organic pollutants, especially production of chlorophenols and chloranil; 
 
 
(g) 
Crematoria; 
 
 
(h) 
Motor vehicles, particularly those burning leaded gasoline; 
 
 
(i) 
Destruction of animal carcasses; 
 
 
(j) 
Textile and leather dyeing (with chloranil) and finishing (with alkaline 
extraction); 
 
 
(k) 
Shredder plants for the treatment of end of life vehicles; 
 
 
(l) 
Smouldering of copper cables; 
 
 
(m) Waste oil refineries. 
 
Part IV:  Definitions 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
 
(a) 
“Polychlorinated biphenyls” means aromatic compounds formed in such a manner 
that the hydrogen atoms on the biphenyl molecule (two benzene rings bonded together by a 
single carbon-carbon bond) may be replaced by up to ten chlorine atoms; and 
 
 
(b) 
“Polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins” and “polychlorinated dibenzofurans” are 
tricyclic, aromatic compounds formed by two benzene rings connected by two oxygen atoms 
in polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and by one oxygen atom and one carbon-carbon bond in 
polychlorinated dibenzofurans and the hydrogen atoms of which may be replaced by up to 
eight chlorine atoms.  
 
2. 
In this Annex, the toxicity of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans is 
expressed using the concept of toxic equivalency which measures the relative dioxin-like 
toxic activity of different congeners of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans 
and coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls in comparison to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.  
The toxic equivalent factor values to be used for the purposes of this Convention shall be 
consistent with accepted international standards, commencing with the World Health 
Organization 1998 mammalian toxic equivalent factor values for polychlorinated dibenzo-p-
dioxins and dibenzofurans and coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls.  Concentrations are 
expressed in toxic equivalents. 
 

 
33
Part V:  General guidance on best available techniques and best environmental practices 
 
 
This Part provides general guidance to Parties on preventing or reducing releases of the 
chemicals listed in Part I. 
 
A.  General prevention measures relating to both best available techniques 
 and best environmental practices 
 
 
Priority should be given to the consideration of approaches to prevent the formation and 
release of the chemicals listed in Part I.  Useful measures could include: 
 
 
(a) 
The use of low-waste technology; 
 
 
(b) 
The use of less hazardous substances; 
 
 
(c) 
The promotion of the recovery and recycling of waste and of substances 
generated and used in a process; 
 
 
(d) 
Replacement of feed materials which are persistent organic pollutants or where 
there is a direct link between the materials and releases of persistent organic pollutants from 
the source; 
 
 
(e) 
Good housekeeping and preventive maintenance programmes; 
 
 
(f) 
Improvements in waste management with the aim of the cessation of open and 
other uncontrolled burning of wastes, including the burning of landfill sites.  When 
considering proposals to construct new waste disposal facilities, consideration should be 
given to alternatives such as activities to minimize the generation of municipal and medical 
waste, including resource recovery, reuse, recycling, waste separation and promoting products 
that generate less waste.   Under this approach, public health concerns should be carefully 
considered; 
 
 
(g) 
Minimization of these chemicals as contaminants in products; 
 
 
(h) 
Avoiding elemental chlorine or chemicals generating elemental chlorine for 
bleaching. 
 
B.  Best available techniques  
 
 
The concept of best available techniques is not aimed at the prescription of any specific 
technique or technology, but at taking into account the technical characteristics of the 
installation concerned, its geographical location and the local environmental conditions.  
Appropriate control techniques to reduce releases of the chemicals listed in Part I are in 
general the same.  In determining best available techniques, special consideration should be 
given, generally or in specific cases, to the following factors, bearing in mind the likely costs 
and benefits of a measure and consideration of precaution and prevention:   
  
 
(a) 
General considerations: 
 
(i) 
The nature, effects and mass of the releases concerned:  techniques may 
vary depending on source size; 
 

 
34
(ii) 
The commissioning dates for new or existing installations; 
 
(iii) The time needed to introduce the best available technique; 
 
(iv) 
The consumption and nature of raw materials used in the process and its 
energy efficiency; 
 
(v) 
The need to prevent or reduce to a minimum the overall impact of the 
releases to the environment and the risks to it; 
 
(vi) 
The need to prevent accidents and to minimize their consequences for the 
environment; 
 
(vii) The need to ensure occupational health and safety at workplaces; 
 
(viii) Comparable processes, facilities or methods of operation which have been 
tried with success on an industrial scale; 
 
(ix) 
Technological advances and changes in scientific knowledge and 
understanding.  
 
  
(b) 
General release reduction measures:  When considering proposals to construct 
new facilities or significantly modify existing facilities using processes that release chemicals 
listed in this Annex, priority consideration should be given to alternative processes, 
techniques or practices that have similar usefulness but which avoid the formation and release 
of such chemicals.  In cases where such facilities will be constructed or significantly 
modified, in addition to the prevention measures outlined in section A of Part V the following 
reduction measures could also be considered in determining best available techniques: 
 
(i) 
Use of improved methods for flue-gas cleaning such as thermal or catalytic 
oxidation, dust precipitation, or adsorption; 
 
(ii) 
Treatment of residuals, wastewater, wastes and sewage sludge by, for 
example, thermal treatment or rendering them inert or chemical processes 
that detoxify them; 
 
(iii) Process changes that lead to the reduction or elimination of releases, such as 
moving to closed systems; 
 
(iv) Modification of process designs to improve combustion and prevent 
formation of the chemicals listed in this Annex, through the control of 
parameters such as incineration temperature or residence time. 
 
 
C.  Best environmental practices  
 
 
The Conference of the Parties may develop guidance with regard to best environmental 
practices. 

 
35
 
Annex D 
 
INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS AND SCREENING CRITERIA  
 
1. 
A Party submitting a proposal to list a chemical in Annexes A, B and/or C shall identify 
the chemical in the manner described in subparagraph (a) and provide the information on the 
chemical, and its transformation products where relevant, relating to the screening criteria set 
out in subparagraphs (b) to (e):  
 
 
(a) 
Chemical identity: 
 
 (i) 
Names, including trade name or names, commercial name or names and 
synonyms, 
Chemical 
Abstracts 
Service 
(CAS) 
Registry 
number, 
International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) name; and  
 
 (ii) 
Structure, including specification of isomers, where applicable, and the 
structure of the chemical class; 
 
 
(b) 
Persistence: 
 
 (i) 
Evidence that the half-life of the chemical in water is greater than two 
months, or that its half-life in soil is greater than six months, or that its half-
life in sediment is greater than six months; or 
 
 (ii) 
Evidence that the chemical is otherwise sufficiently persistent to justify its 
consideration within the scope of this Convention; 
 
 
(c) 
Bio-accumulation: 
 
 (i) 
Evidence that the bio-concentration factor or bio-accumulation factor in 
aquatic species for the chemical is greater than 5,000 or, in the absence of 
such data, that the log Kow is greater than 5;  
 
 (ii) 
Evidence that a chemical presents other reasons for concern, such as high 
bio-accumulation in other species, high toxicity or ecotoxicity; or 
 
 (iii) Monitoring data in biota indicating that the bio-accumulation potential of 
the chemical is sufficient to justify its consideration within the scope of this 
Convention; 
 
 
(d) 
Potential for long-range environmental transport: 
 
 (i) 
Measured levels of the chemical in locations distant from the sources of its 
release that are of potential concern;  
 
 (ii) 
Monitoring data showing that long-range environmental transport of the 
chemical, with the potential for transfer to a receiving environment, may 
have occurred via air, water or migratory species; or 
 
 (iii) Environmental fate properties and/or model results that demonstrate that the 
chemical has a potential for long-range environmental transport through air, 

 
36
water or migratory species, with the potential for transfer to a receiving 
environment in locations distant from the sources of its release.  For a 
chemical that migrates significantly through the air, its half-life in air should 
be greater than two days; and 
 
 
(e) 
Adverse effects: 
 
 (i) 
Evidence of adverse effects to human health or to the environment that 
justifies consideration of the chemical within the scope of this Convention; 
or  
 
 (ii) 
Toxicity or ecotoxicity data that indicate the potential for damage to human 
health or to the environment. 
  
  
2. 
The proposing Party shall provide a statement of the reasons for concern including, 
where possible, a comparison of toxicity or ecotoxicity data with detected or predicted levels 
of a chemical resulting or anticipated from its long-range environmental transport, and a short 
statement indicating the need for global control. 
 
3. 
The proposing Party shall, to the extent possible and taking into account its capabilities, 
provide additional information to support the review of the proposal referred to in paragraph 6 
of Article 8.  In developing such a proposal, a Party may draw on technical expertise from any 
source. 
 
 

 
37
 
Annex E 
 
INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS FOR THE RISK PROFILE 
 
 
The purpose of the review is to evaluate whether the chemical is likely, as a result of its 
long-range environmental transport, to lead to significant adverse human health and/or 
environmental effects, such that global action is warranted.  For this purpose, a risk profile 
shall be developed that further elaborates on, and evaluates, the information referred to in 
Annex D and includes, as far as possible, the following types of information:  
 
 
(a) 
Sources, including as appropriate: 
 
 
 
(i) 
Production data, including quantity and location;  
 
 
 
(ii) 
Uses; and  
 
 
 
(iii) Releases, such as discharges, losses and emissions;  
 
 
(b) 
Hazard assessment for the endpoint or endpoints of concern, including a 
consideration of toxicological interactions involving multiple chemicals; 
 
 
(c) 
Environmental fate, including data and information on the chemical and physical 
properties of a chemical as well as its persistence and how they are linked to its environmental 
transport, transfer within and between environmental compartments, degradation and 
transformation to other chemicals.  A determination of the bio-concentration factor or bio-
accumulation factor, based on measured values, shall be available, except when monitoring 
data are judged to meet this need; 
 
 
(d) 
Monitoring data; 
 
 
(e) 
Exposure in local areas and, in particular, as a result of long-range environmental 
transport, and including information regarding bio-availability;  
 
 
(f) 
National and international risk evaluations, assessments or profiles and labelling 
information and hazard classifications, as available; and  
 
 
(g) 
Status of the chemical under international conventions. 

 
38
 
Annex F 
 
INFORMATION ON SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS 
 
 
An evaluation should be undertaken regarding possible control measures for chemicals 
under consideration for inclusion in this Convention, encompassing the full range of options, 
including management and elimination.  For this purpose, relevant information should be 
provided relating to socio-economic considerations associated with possible control measures 
to enable a decision to be taken by the Conference of the Parties.  Such information should 
reflect due regard for the differing capabilities and conditions among the Parties and should 
include consideration of the following indicative list of items:  
 
(a) 
Efficacy and efficiency of possible control measures in meeting risk reduction 
goals: 
 
 
(i) 
Technical feasibility; and 
 
 
(ii) 
Costs, including environmental and health costs; 
 
(b) 
Alternatives (products and processes): 
 
 
(i) 
Technical feasibility; 
 
 
 
(ii) 
Costs, including environmental and health costs; 
 
 
(iii) Efficacy; 
 
 
(iv) Risk; 
 
 
(v) 
Availability; and 
 
 
(vi) Accessibility; 
 
(c) 
Positive and/or negative impacts on society of implementing possible control 
measures: 
 
 
(i) 
Health, including public, environmental and occupational health; 
 
 
(ii) 
Agriculture, including aquaculture and forestry; 
 
 
(iii) Biota (biodiversity); 
 
 
(iv) Economic aspects; 
 
 
(v) 
Movement towards sustainable development; and 
 
 
(vi) Social costs; 
 
(d) 
Waste and disposal implications (in particular, obsolete stocks of pesticides and 
clean-up of contaminated sites): 
 
 
(i) 
Technical feasibility; and 
 
 
(ii) 
Cost; 
 
(e) 
Access to information and public education;  
 
(f) 
Status of control and monitoring capacity; and 
 
(g) 
Any national or regional control actions taken, including information on 
alternatives, and other relevant risk management information. 

 
39
 
Annex G 
 
ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION PROCEDURES FOR 
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 
(Decision SC-1/2 of the Conference of the Parties) 
 
Part I: Arbitration procedure 
 
 
The arbitration procedure for purposes of paragraph 2 (a) of Article 18 of the 
Convention shall be as follows: 
 
Article 1 
 
1. 
A Party may initiate recourse to arbitration in accordance with Article 18 of the 
Convention by written notification addressed to the other party to the dispute. The notification 
shall be accompanied by a statement of the claim, together with any supporting documents, 
and state the subject-matter of arbitration and include, in particular, the articles of the 
Convention the interpretation or application of which are at issue. 
 
2. 
The claimant party shall notify the Secretariat that the parties are referring a dispute to 
arbitration pursuant to Article 18. The notification shall be accompanied by the written 
notification of the claimant party, the statement of claim and the supporting documents 
referred to in paragraph 1 above. The Secretariat shall forward the information thus received 
to all Parties. 
 
Article 2 
 
1. 
If a dispute is referred to arbitration in accordance with Article 1 above, an arbitral 
tribunal shall be established. It shall consist of three members.  
 
2. 
Each of the parties to the dispute shall appoint an arbitrator and the two arbitrators so 
appointed shall designate by common agreement the third arbitrator, who shall be the 
President of the tribunal. The President of the tribunal shall not be a national of one of the 
parties to the dispute, nor have his or her usual place of residence in the territory of one of 
those parties, nor be employed by any of them, nor have dealt with the case in any other 
capacity. 
 
3. 
In disputes between more than two parties, parties in the same interest shall appoint one 
arbitrator jointly by agreement. 
 
4. 
Any vacancy shall be filled in the manner prescribed for the initial appointment. 
 
5. 
If the parties do not agree on the subject-matter of the dispute before the President of 
the arbitral tribunal is designated, the arbitral tribunal shall determine the subject-matter. 
 
Article 3 
 
1. 
If one of the parties to the dispute does not appoint an arbitrator within two months of 
the date on which the respondent party receives the notification of the arbitration, the other 
party may inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall make the 
designation within a further two-month period. 

 
40
 
2. 
If the President of the arbitral tribunal has not been designated within two months of the 
date of the appointment of the second arbitrator, the Secretary-General of the United Nations 
shall, at the request of a party, designate the President within a further two-month period.  
 
Article 4 
 
 
The arbitral tribunal shall render its decisions in accordance with the provisions of the 
Convention and international law. 
 
Article 5 
 
 
Unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the arbitral tribunal shall determine its 
own rules of procedure. 
 
Article 6 
 
 
The arbitral tribunal may, at the request of one of the parties, indicate essential interim 
measures of protection. 
 
Article 7 
 
 
The parties to the dispute shall facilitate the work of the arbitral tribunal and, in 
particular, using all means at their disposal, shall: 
 
(a) 
Provide it with all relevant documents, information and facilities; and 
 
(b) 
Enable it, when necessary, to call witnesses or experts and receive their evidence. 
 
Article 8 
 
The parties and the arbitrators are under an obligation to protect the confidentiality of 
any information they receive in confidence during the proceedings of the arbitral tribunal. 
 
Article 9 
 
Unless the arbitral tribunal determines otherwise because of the particular 
circumstances of the case, the costs of the tribunal shall be borne by the parties to the dispute 
in equal shares. The tribunal shall keep a record of all its costs, and shall furnish a final 
statement thereof to the parties. 
 
Article 10 
 
A party that has an interest of a legal nature in the subject matter of the dispute which 
may be affected by the decision in the case may intervene in the proceedings with the consent 
of the tribunal. 
 
Article 11 
 
The tribunal may hear and determine counterclaims arising directly out of the subject 
matter of the dispute. 
 

 
41
Article 12 
 
Decisions both on procedure and substance of the arbitral tribunal shall be taken by a 
majority vote of its members. 
 
Article 13 
 
1. 
If one of the parties to the dispute does not appear before the arbitral tribunal or fails to 
defend its case, the other party may request the tribunal to continue the proceedings and to 
make its award. Absence of a party or a failure of a party to defend its case shall not constitute 
a bar to the proceedings. 
 
2. 
Before rendering its final decision, the arbitral tribunal must satisfy itself that the claim 
is well founded in fact and law. 
 
Article 14 
 
The tribunal shall render its final decision within five months of the date on which it is 
fully constituted unless it finds it necessary to extend the time limit for a period which should 
not exceed five more months. 
 
Article 15 
 
The final decision of the arbitral tribunal shall be confined to the subject matter of the 
dispute and shall state the reasons on which it is based. It shall contain the names of the 
members who have participated and the date of the final decision. Any member of the tribunal 
may attach a separate or dissenting opinion to the final decision. 
 
Article 16 
 
The award shall be binding on the parties to the dispute. The interpretation of the 
Convention given by the award shall also be binding upon a Party intervening under Article 
10 above insofar as it relates to matters in respect of which that Party intervened. The award 
shall be without appeal unless the parties to the dispute have agreed in advance to an appellate 
procedure. 
 
Article 17 
 
 
Any controversy which may arise between those bound by the final decision in 
accordance with Article 16 above, as regards the interpretation or manner of implementation 
of that decision, may be submitted by any of them for decision to the arbitral tribunal which 
rendered it. 
 

 
42
Part II: Conciliation procedure 
 
 
The conciliation procedure for purposes of paragraph 6 of Article 18 of the Convention 
shall be as follows: 
 
Article 1 
 
1. 
A request by a party to a dispute to establish a conciliation commission in consequence 
of paragraph 6 of Article 18 shall be addressed in writing to the Secretariat. The Secretariat 
shall forthwith inform all Parties to the Convention accordingly. 
 
2. 
The conciliation commission shall, unless the parties otherwise agree, be composed of 
three members, one appointed by each party concerned and a President chosen jointly by 
those members. 
 
Article 2 
 
In disputes between more than two parties, parties in the same interest shall appoint 
their members of the commission jointly by agreement. 
 
Article 3 
 
If any appointments by the parties are not made within two months of the date of receipt 
by the Secretariat of the written request referred to in Article 1, the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations shall, upon request by a party, make those appointments within a further two-
month period. 
 
Article 4 
 
If the President of the conciliation commission has not been chosen within two months 
of the second member of the commission being appointed, the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations shall, upon request by a party, designate the President within a further two-
month period. 
 
Article 5 
 
1. 
The conciliation commission shall, unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, 
determine its own rules of procedure. 
 
2. 
The parties and members of the commission are under an obligation to protect the 
confidentiality of any information they receive in confidence during the proceedings of the 
commission. 
 
Article 6 
 
The conciliation commission shall take its decisions by a majority vote of its members.  
 
Article 7 
 
 
The conciliation commission shall render a report with recommendations for resolution 
of the dispute within twelve months of being established, which the parties shall consider in 
good faith. 

 
43
 
Article 8 
 
Any disagreement as to whether the conciliation commission has competence to 
consider a matter referred to it shall be decided by the commission. 
 
Article 9 
 
The costs of the commission shall be borne by the parties to the dispute in shares agreed 
by them. The commission shall keep the record of all its costs and shall furnish a final 
statement thereof to the parties. 
 
