o in Annex IX, point 8.7.2 or 
an 
Extended 
One-Generation 
Reproductive 
Toxicity Study (OECD TG 443) referred to in 
Annex IX, point 8.7.3 is available or proposed 
by the registrant; or a Two-Generation Repro­
ductive Toxicity Study (OECD TG 416) is 
available, 
— a substance is known to have an adverse effect 
on sexual function or fertility, meeting the 
criteria for classification in the hazard class 
reproductive toxicity category 1A or 1B: May 
damage fertility (H360F), and the available data 
are adequate to support a robust risk assessment, 
— a substance is known to cause developmental 
toxicity, meeting the criteria for classification in 
the hazard class reproductive toxicity category 
1A or 1B: May damage the unborn child 
(H360D), and the available data are adequate 
to support a robust risk assessment. 
In case of serious concerns about potential 
adverse effects on sexual function, fertility or 
development, the registrant shall propose, or 
the Agency may require either an Extended 
One-Generation Reproductive Toxicity Study 
(OECD TG 443), referred to in Annex IX, 
point 8.7.3, 
or a pre-natal developmental 
toxicity study (OECD TG 414), referred to in 
Annex IX, point 8.7.2, instead of the screening 
study (OECD TG 421 or 422) to address those 
concerns. Those serious concerns include among 
others: 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 182 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION 
REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
— adverse effects related to sexual function, 
fertility or development based on available 
information, not meeting the criteria for classi- 
fication as reproductive toxicity category 1A or 
1B, 
— possible developmental or reproductive toxicity 
of the substance predicted from information on 
structurally related substances, (Q)SAR esti- 
mates or in vitro methods. 
▼M51 
8.8. 
Toxicokinetics 
8.8.1. 
Assessment of the toxi­
cokinetic behaviour of the 
substance to the extent that 
can be derived from the 
relevant 
available 
information. 
►M70 For nanoforms without high dissolution rate in 
biological media a toxicokinetics study shall be proposed 
by the registrant or may be required by the Agency in case 
such an assessment cannot be performed on the basis of 
relevant available information, including from the study 
conducted in accordance with 8.6.1 ◄ 
The choice of the study will depend on the remaining 
information gaps and the results of the chemical safety 
assessment. 
▼C1 
9. ECOTOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD 
INFORMATION 
REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
▼M70 
9.1. 
Aquatic toxicity 
9.1. 
Long-term aquatic toxicity testing referred to in Annex IX, 
subsection 9.1, in addition to short-term toxicity testing shall 
be proposed by the registrant or may be required by the 
Agency if the chemical safety assessment performed in 
accordance with Annex I indicates that it is needed to 
further investigate the effects on aquatic organisms, for 
example when further information is needed for the 
refinement of the PNEC or if additional toxicity information 
as set out in Annex XIII, point 3.2.3, would be necessary to 
assess PBT or vPvB properties of the substance. 
The choice of the appropriate test(s) shall be made on the 
basis of the results of the chemical safety assessment. 
▼M70

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 183 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD 
INFORMATION 
REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
▼M70 
9.1.3. 
Short-term 
toxicity 
testing 
on fish 
9.1.3. 
The study does not need to be conducted in any of the 
following cases: 
— there are factors indicating that short-term aquatic toxicity 
is unlikely to occur, for instance if the substance is highly 
insoluble in water or the substance is unlikely to cross 
biological membranes, 
— a long-term aquatic toxicity study on fish is available. 
For nanoforms, the study may not be waived on the basis 
of high insolubility in water alone. 
The registrant may propose long-term toxicity testing 
instead of short-term toxicity testing. 
Long-term toxicity testing on fish referred to in Annex IX, 
point 9.1.6, shall be proposed by the registrant or may be 
required by the Agency when it is unlikely that short-term 
toxicity testing can provide a true measure of the intrinsic 
aquatic toxicity of the substance, for instance: 
— if the substance is poorly water soluble (below 1 mg/L), 
or 
— for nanoforms with low dissolution rate in the relevant test 
media. 
▼M51 
9.1.4. 
Activated sludge 
respiration 
inhibition testing 
9.1.4. 
The study does not need to be conducted if: 
— there is no emission to a sewage treatment plant, or 
— there are mitigating factors indicating that microbial 
toxicity is unlikely to occur, for instance the substance 
is highly insoluble in water, or 
— the substance is found to be readily biodegradable and the 
applied test concentrations are in the range of concen­
trations that can be expected in the influent of a sewage 
treatment plant. 
For nanoforms, the study may not be waived on the basis of 
high insolubility in water alone. 
The study may be replaced by a nitrification inhibition test if 
available data show that the substance is likely to be an 
inhibitor of microbial growth or function, in particular 
nitrifying bacteria. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 184 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD 
INFORMATION 
REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
9.2. 
Degradation 
►M70 9.2. 
Further information on degradation shall be generated 
or further degradation testing as described in Annex IX 
shall be proposed if the chemical safety assessment 
performed in accordance with Annex I indicates that 
it is needed to further investigate the degradation of the 
substance. That could for example be the case if ad­
ditional information on degradation as set out in Annex 
XIII, point 3.2.1, is required to assess PBT or vPvB 
properties of the substance in accordance with 
subsection 2.1 of that Annex. 
For nanoforms that are not soluble, nor have high 
dissolution rate, such test(s) shall consider morpho­
logical transformation (e.g. irreversible changes in 
particle size, shape and surface properties, loss of 
coating), chemical transformation (e.g. oxidation, 
reduction) 
and 
other 
abiotic 
degradation 
(e.g. 
photolysis). 
The choice of the appropriate test(s) shall be made on 
the basis of the results of the chemical safety 
assessment. 
In case the generation of additional information 
requires further testing in accordance with Annex IX, 
the registrant shall propose or the Agency may require 
such testing. ◄ 
9.2.2. 
Abiotic 
9.2.2.1. Hydrolysis as a 
function of pH. 
►M70 9.2.2.1. 
The study does not need to be conducted in any of 
the following cases: 
— the substance is readily biodegradable, 
— the substance is highly insoluble in water, 
— based on the structure, the substance does not 
have chemical groups that can hydrolyse. 
For nanoforms, the study may not be waived on the 
basis of high insolubility in water alone. ◄ 
▼C1 
9.3. 
Fate 
and 
behaviour in the 
environment 
►M70 9.3. 
Further information on bioaccumulation shall be 
generated if additional information on bioaccumulation 
as set out in Annex XIII, point 3.2.2, is required to 
assess PBT or vPvB properties of the substance in 
accordance with subsection 2.1 of that Annex. 
In case the generation of additional information 
requires further testing in accordance with Annex IX 
or Annex X, the registrant shall propose or the Agency 
may require such testing. ◄ 
▼M51

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 185 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD 
INFORMATION 
REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
▼M51 
9.3.1. 
Adsorption/ 
desorption 
screening 
9.3.1. 
The study does not need to be conducted if: 
— based on the physicochemical properties the substance can 
be expected to have a low potential for adsorption (e.g. 
the substance has a low octanol-water partition coef­
ficient), or 
— the substance and its relevant degradation products 
decompose rapidly. 
►M64 The study may not be waived on the basis of low 
octanol-water partition coefficient alone, unless the adsorptive 
properties of the substance are solely driven by lipophilicity. 
For instance, the study may not be waived on the basis of low 
octanol-water partition coefficient alone if the substance is 
surface active or ionisable at environmental pH (pH 4 – 9). ◄ 
For nanoforms, use of any physicochemical property (e.g. 
octanol-water partition coefficient) as a reason for waiving 
the study shall include adequate justification of its relevance 
to low potential for adsorption. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 186 
ANNEX IX 
STANDARD INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBSTANCES 
MANUFACTURED OR IMPORTED IN QUANTITIES OF 100 TONNES 
OR MORE ( 1 ) 
At the level of this Annex, the registrant must submit a proposal and a time 
schedule for fulfilling the information requirements of this Annex in accordance 
with Article 12(1)(d). 
Column 1 of this Annex establishes the standard information required for all 
substances manufactured or imported in quantities of 100 tonnes or more in 
accordance with Article 12(1)(d). Accordingly, the information required in 
column 1 of this Annex is additional to that required in column 1 of Annexes 
VII and VIII. Any other relevant physicochemical, toxicological and ecotoxico­
logical information that is available shall be provided. Column 2 of this Annex 
lists specific rules according to which the registrant may propose to omit the 
required standard information, replace it by other information, provide it at a later 
stage or adapt it in another way. If the conditions are met under which column 2 
of this Annex allows an adaptation to be proposed, the registrant shall clearly 
state this fact and the reasons for proposing each adaptation under the appropriate 
headings in the reg