ect. 
▼C1 
1.1.4. 
If one study is available then a robust study summary should be 
prepared for that study. If there are several studies addressing the 
same effect, then, having taken into account possible variables (e.g. 
conduct, adequacy, relevance of test species, quality of results, etc.), 
normally the study or studies giving rise to the highest concern shall 
be used to establish the DNELs and a robust study summary shall be 
prepared for that study or studies and included as part of the technical 
dossier. Robust summaries will be required of all key data used in the 
hazard assessment. If the study or studies giving rise to the highest 
concern are not used, then this shall be fully justified and included as 
part of the technical dossier, not only for the study being used but also 
for all studies demonstrating a higher concern than the study being used. 
It is important irrespective of whether hazards have been identified or 
not that the validity of the study be considered. 
1.2. 
Step 2: Evaluation of human information 
If no human information is available, this part shall contain the 
statement: ‘No human information is available’. However, if human 
information is available, it shall be presented, if possible in the form 
of a table. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 107 
1.3. 
Step 3: Classification and Labelling 
▼M10 
1.3.1. 
The appropriate classification developed in accordance with the criteria 
in Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 shall be presented and justified. 
Where applicable, Specific Concentration limits resulting from the appli­
cation of Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 and Articles 4 to 
7 of Directive 1999/45/EC shall be presented and, if they are not 
included in Part 3 of Annex VI to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008, 
justified. 
▼M51 
The assessment should always include a statement as to whether the 
substance or, when applicable, nanoforms thereof fulfils or does not 
fulfil the criteria given in Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 for classifi­
cation in the hazard class carcinogenicity category 1A or 1B, in the 
hazard class germ cell mutagenicity category 1A or 1B or in the hazard 
class reproductive toxicity category 1A or 1B. 
1.3.2. 
If the information is inadequate to decide whether a substance or, when 
applicable, nanoforms thereof should be classified for a particular hazard 
class or category, the registrants shall indicate and justify the action or 
decision he has taken as a result. 
▼C1 
1.4. 
Step 4: Identification of DNEL(s) 
1.4.1. 
Based on the outcomes of steps 1 and 2, (a) DNEL(s) shall be estab­
lished for the substance, reflecting the likely route(s), duration and 
frequency of exposure. ►M10 For some hazard classes, especially 
germ cell mutagenicity and carcinogenicity, the available information 
may not enable a toxicological threshold, and therefore a DNEL, to 
be established. ◄ If justified by the exposure scenario(s), a single 
DNEL may be sufficient. However, taking into account the available 
information and the exposure scenario(s) in Section 9 of the Chemical 
Safety Report it may be necessary to identify different DNELs for each 
relevant human population (e.g. workers, consumers and humans liable 
to exposure indirectly via the environment) and possibly for certain 
vulnerable sub-populations (e.g. children, pregnant women) and for 
different routes of exposure. A full justification shall be given spec­
ifying, inter alia, the choice of the information used, the route of 
exposure (oral, dermal, inhalation) and the duration and frequency of 
exposure to the substance for which the DNEL is valid. If more than 
one route of exposure is likely to occur, then a DNEL shall be estab­
lished for each route of exposure and for the exposure from all routes 
combined. When establishing the DNEL, the following factors shall, 
inter alia, be taken into account: 
(a) the uncertainty arising, among other factors, from the variability in 
the experimental information and from intra- and inter-species vari­
ation; 
(b) the nature and severity of the effect; 
(c) the sensitivity of the human (sub-)population to which the quanti­
tative and/or qualitative information on exposure applies. 
1.4.2. 
If it is not possible to identify a DNEL, then this shall be clearly stated 
and fully justified. 
2. 
PHYSICOCHEMICAL HAZARD ASSESSMENT 
▼M10 
2.1. 
The objective of the hazard assessment for physicochemical properties 
shall be to determine the classification of a substance in accordance with 
Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 108 
2.2. 
As a minimum, the potential effects to human health shall be assessed 
for the following physicochemical properties: 
— explosivity, 
— flammability, 
— oxidising potential. 
▼M51 
If the information is inadequate to decide whether a substance or, when 
applicable, nanoforms thereof should be classified for a particular hazard 
class or category, the registrant shall indicate and justify the action or 
decision he has taken as a result. 
▼C1 
2.3. 
The assessment of each effect shall be presented under the relevant 
heading of the Chemical Safety Report (Section 7) and where 
required and in accordance with Article 31, summarised in the Safety 
Data Sheet under headings 2 and 9. 
2.4. 
For every physicochemical property, the assessment shall entail an 
evaluation of the inherent capacity of the substance to cause the 
effect resulting from the manufacture and identified uses. 
▼M10 
2.5. 
The appropriate classification developed in accordance with the criteria 
in Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 shall be presented and justified. 
▼C1 
3. 
ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARD ASSESSMENT 
3.0. 
Introduction 
▼M10 
3.0.1. 
The objective of the environmental hazard assessment shall be to 
determine the classification of a substance in accordance with Regu­
lation (EC) No 1272/2008 and to identify the concentration of the 
substance below which adverse effects in the environmental sphere of 
concern are not expected to occur. This concentration is known as the 
Predicted No-Effect Concentration (PNEC). 
▼C1 
3.0.2. 
The environmental hazard assessment shall consider the potential effects 
on the environment, comprising the (1) aquatic (including sediment), (2) 
terrestrial and (3) atmospheric compartments, including the potential 
effects that may occur (4) via food-chain accumulation. In addition, 
the potential effects on the (5) microbiological activity of sewage 
treatment systems shall be considered. The assessment of the effects 
on each of these five environmental spheres shall be presented under 
the relevant heading of the Chemical Safety Report (Section 7) and 
where required and in accordance with Article 31, summarised in the 
Safety Data Sheet under headings 2 and 12. ►M51 The assessment 
shall address all nanoforms that are covered by the registration. ◄ 
3.0.3. 
For any environmental sphere, for which no effect information is 
available, the relevant section of the chemical safety report shall 
contain the sentence: ‘This information is not available’. The justifi­
cation, including reference to any literature research carried out, shall 
be included in the technical dossier. For any environmental sphere for 
which information is available, but the manufacturer or importer 
believes that it is not necessary to conduct the hazard assessment, the 
manufacturer or importer shall present a justification, with reference to 
pertinent information, under the relevant heading of the Chemical Safety 
Report (Section 7) and where required and in accordance with 
Article 31, summarised in the Safety Data Sheet under heading 12. 
▼M10

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 109 
3.0.4. 
The hazard assessment shall comprise the following three steps, which 
shall be clearly identified as such in the Chemical Safety Report: 
Step 1: Evaluation of information. 
Step 2: Classification and Labelling. 
Step 3: Derivation of the PNEC. 
3.1. 
Step 1: Evaluation of information 
3.1.1. 
The evaluation of all available information shall comprise: 
— the hazard identification based on all available information, 
— the establishment of the quantitative dose (concentration)-response 
(effect) relationship. 
3.1.2. 
When it is not possible to establish the quantitative dose (concen­
tration)-response (effect) relationship, then this should be justified and 
a semi-quantitative or qualitative analysis shall be included. 
3.1.3. 
All information used to assess the effects on a specific environmental 
sphere shall be briefly presented, if possible in the form of a table or 
tables. The relevant test results (e.g. LC50 or NOEC) and test conditions 
(e.g. test duration, route of administration) and other relevant 
information shall be presented, in internationally recognised units of 
measurement for that effect. 
3.1.4. 
All information used to assess the environmental fate of the substance 
shall be briefly presented, if possible in the form of a table or tables. 
The relevant test results and test conditions and other relevant 
information shall be presented, in internationally recognised units of 
measurement for that effect. 
3.1.5. 
If one study is available then a robust study summary should be 
prepared for that study. Where there is more than one study addressing 
the same effect, then the study or studies giving rise to the highest 
concern shall be used to draw a conclusion and a robust study 
summary shall be prepared for that study or studies and included as 
part of the technical dossier. Robust summaries will be required of all 
key data used in the hazard assessment. If the study or studies giving 
rise to the highest concern are not used, then this shall be fully justified 
and included as part of the technical dossier, not only for the study 
being used but also for all studies reaching a higher concern than the 
study being used. For substances where all available studies indicate no 
hazar