 have 
previously been involved as representatives of one of the parties to the 
proceedings, or if they participated in the decision under appeal. 
6. 
If a member of the Board of Appeal considers for reasons 
mentioned in paragraph 5 that he must not take part in a specific 
appeal proceedings, he shall inform the Board of Appeal accordingly. 
Members of the Board may be objected to by any party to the appeal 
proceedings on any of the grounds mentioned in paragraph 5, or if 
suspected of partiality. No objection may be based on the nationality 
of members. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 84 
7. 
The Board of Appeal shall decide as to the action to be taken in 
the cases specified in paragraphs 5 and 6 without the participation of the 
member concerned. For the purposes of taking this decision, the 
member concerned shall be replaced on the Board of Appeal by an 
alternate. 
Article 91 
Decisions subject to appeal 
1. 
An appeal may be brought against decisions of the Agency taken 
pursuant to Article 9, Article 20, Article 27(6), Article 30(2) and (3) and 
Article 51. 
2. 
An appeal lodged pursuant to paragraph 1 shall have suspensive 
effect. 
Article 92 
Persons entitled to appeal, time-limits, fees and form 
1. 
Any natural or legal person may appeal against a decision 
addressed to that person, or against a decision which, although 
addressed to another person, is of direct and individual concern to the 
former. 
2. 
The appeal, together with the statements of the grounds thereof, 
shall be filed in writing to the Agency within three months of the 
notification of the decision to the person concerned, or in the absence 
thereof, of the day on which it became known to the latter, unless 
otherwise provided in this Regulation. 
3. 
A fee may be payable by persons bringing an appeal against an 
Agency decision, in accordance with Title IX. 
Article 93 
Examination and decisions on appeal 
1. 
If, after consultation with the Chairman of the Board of Appeal, 
the Executive Director considers the appeal to be admissible and well 
founded he may rectify the decision within 30 days of the appeal being 
filed in accordance with Article 92(2). 
2. 
In cases other than those referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, 
the Chairman of the Board of Appeal shall examine whether the appeal 
is admissible within 30 days of the appeal being filed in accordance 
with Article 92(2). In the affirmative, the appeal shall be remitted to the 
Board of Appeal for examination of the grounds. Parties to the appeal 
proceedings shall be entitled to make an oral presentation during the 
procedure. 
3. 
The Board of Appeal may exercise any power which lies within 
the competence of the Agency or remit the case to the competent body 
of the Agency for further action. 
4. 
The procedures for the Board of Appeal shall be determined by 
the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in 
Article 133(3). 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 85 
Article 94 
Actions before the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice 
1. 
An action may be brought before the Court of First Instance or the 
Court of Justice, in accordance with Article 230 of the Treaty, 
contesting a decision taken by the Board of Appeal or, in cases 
where no right of appeal lies before the Board, by the Agency. 
2. 
Should the Agency fail to take a decision, proceedings for failure 
to act may be brought before the Court of First Instance or the Court of 
Justice in accordance with Article 232 of the Treaty. 
3. 
The Agency shall be required to take the necessary measures to 
comply with the judgment of the Court of First Instance or the Court of 
Justice. 
Article 95 
Conflicts of opinion with other bodies 
1. 
The Agency shall take care to ensure early identification of 
potential sources of conflict between its opinions and those of other 
bodies established under Community law, including Community 
Agencies, carrying out a similar task in relation to issues of common 
concern. 
2. 
Where the Agency identifies a potential source of conflict, it shall 
contact the body concerned in order to ensure that any relevant 
scientific or technical information is shared and to identify the scientific 
or technical points which are potentially contentious. 
3. 
Where there is a fundamental conflict over scientific or technical 
points and the body concerned is a Community Agency or a scientific 
committee, the Agency and the body concerned shall work together 
either to solve the conflict or to submit a joint document to the 
Commission clarifying the scientific and/or technical points of conflict. 
Article 96 
The budget of the Agency 
1. 
The revenues of the Agency shall consist of: 
(a) a subsidy from the Community, entered in the general budget of the 
European Communities (Commission Section); 
(b) the fees paid by undertakings; 
(c) any voluntary contribution from the Member States. 
2. 
The expenditure of the Agency shall include the staff, adminis­
trative, infrastructure and operational expenses. 
3. 
By 15 February of each year at the latest, the Executive Director 
shall draw up a preliminary draft budget covering the operational 
expenditure and the programme of work anticipated for the following 
financial year, and shall forward this preliminary draft to the 
Management Board together with an establishment plan accompanied 
by a provisional list of posts. 
4. 
Revenue and expenditure shall be in balance. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 86 
5. 
Each year the Management Board, on the basis of a draft drawn 
up by the Executive Director, shall produce an estimate of revenue and 
expenditure for the Agency for the following financial year. This 
estimate, which shall include a draft establishment plan, shall be 
forwarded by the Management Board to the Commission by 31 
March at the latest. 
6. 
The estimate shall be forwarded by the Commission to the 
European Parliament and the Council (hereinafter referred to as the 
budgetary authority) together with the preliminary draft budget of the 
European Communities. 
7. 
On the basis of the estimate, the Commission shall enter in the 
preliminary draft budget of the European Communities the estimates it 
considers necessary for the establishment plan and the amount of the 
subsidy to be charged to the general budget, which it shall place before 
the budgetary authority in accordance with Article 272 of the Treaty. 
8. 
The budgetary authority shall authorise the appropriations for the 
subsidy to the Agency. 
The budgetary authority shall adopt the establishment plan for the 
Agency. 
9. 
The budget of the Agency shall be adopted by the Management 
Board. It shall become final following final adoption of the general 
budget of the European Communities. Where appropriate, it shall be 
adjusted accordingly. 
10. 
Any modification to the budget, including the establishment plan, 
shall follow the procedure referred to above. 
11. 
The Management Board shall, without delay, notify the 
budgetary authority of its intention to implement any project which 
may have significant financial implications for the funding of its 
budget, in particular any projects relating to property such as the 
rental or purchase of buildings. It shall inform the Commission thereof. 
Where a branch of the budgetary authority has notified its intention to 
deliver an opinion, it shall forward its opinion to the Management 
Board within a period of six weeks from the date of notification of 
the project. 
Article 97 
Implementation of the budget of the Agency 
1. 
The Executive Director shall perform the duties of authorising 
officer and shall implement the Agency's budget. 
2. 
Monitoring of the commitment and payment of all the Agency's 
expenditure and of the establishment and recovery of all the Agency's 
revenue shall be carried out by the Accounting Officer of the Agency. 
3. 
By 1 March at the latest following each financial year, the 
Agency's accounting officer shall communicate the provisional 
accounts to the Commission's accounting officer together with a 
report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial 
year. The Commission's accounting officer shall consolidate the provi­
sional accounts of the institutions and decentralised bodies in 
accordance with Article 128 of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 
1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to 
the general budget of the European Communities ( 1 ). 
▼C1 
( 1 ) OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC, 
Euratom) No 1995/2006 (OJ L 390, 30.12.2006, p. 1).

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 87 
4. 
By 31 March at the latest following each financial year, the 
Commission's accounting officer shall forward the Agency's provisional 
accounts to the Court of Auditors, together with a report on the 
budgetary and financial management for that financial year. The 
report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial 
year shall also be forwarded to the European Parliament and the 
Council. 
5. 
On receipt of the Court of Auditors' observations on the Agency's 
provisional accounts, pursuant to Article 129 of Regulation (EC, 
Euratom) No 1605/2002, the Executive Director shall draw up the 
Agency's final accounts under his own responsibility and forward 
them to the Management Board for an opinion. 
6. 
The Management Board shall deliver an opinion on the Agency's 
final accounts. 
7. 
By 1 July of the following year at the latest, the Executive 
Director shall send the final accounts, together with the opinion of 
the Management Board, to the European Parliament, the Council, the 
Commission and the Court of Auditors. 
8. 
The final accounts shall be published. 
9. 
The Executive Director shall send the Court of Auditors a reply to 
its observations by 30 September at the latest. He shall also send this 
reply to the Management Board. 
1