
Skin corrosion/irritation, category 1, categories 1A, 1B, 
1C and category 2 
≥ 1 
Serious damage to eyes/eye irritation, category 1 and 2 
≥ 1 
Respiratory sensitiser category 1 or category 1B 
≥ 0,1 
Respiratory sensitiser category 1A 
≥ 0,01 
Skin sensitiser category 1 or category 1B 
≥ 0,1 
Skin sensitiser category 1A 
≥ 0,01 
Germ cell mutagenicity category 1A and 1B 
≥ 0,1 
Germ cell mutagenicity category 2 
≥ 1 
Carcinogenicity category 1A, 1B and 2 
≥ 0,1 
Reproductive toxicity, category 1A, 1B, 2 and effects 
on or via lactation 
≥ 0,1 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 125 
Hazard class and category 
Concentration limit (%) 
Specific target organ toxicity (STOT) – single 
exposure, category 1, 2 and 3 
≥ 1 
Specific target organ toxicity (STOT) – repeated 
exposure, category 1 and 2 
≥ 1 
Aspiration toxicity 
≥ 1 
Hazardous to the aquatic environment – Acute, 
category 1 
≥ 0,1 
Hazardous to the aquatic environment – Chronic, 
category 1 
≥ 0,1 
Hazardous to the aquatic environment – Chronic, 
category 2, 3 and 4 
≥ 1 
Hazardous for the ozone layer 
≥ 0,1 
3.2.2. 
For a mixture not meeting the criteria for classification in accordance 
with Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008, substances present in an indi­
vidual concentration equal to or greater than the following concen­
trations shall be indicated, together with their concentration or 
concentration range: 
(a) 1 % by weight in non-gaseous mixtures and 0,2 % by volume in 
gaseous mixtures for: 
(i) substances which present a health or environmental hazard 
within the meaning of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008; or 
(ii) substances for which Union workplace exposure limits have 
been assigned; 
(b) 0,1 % by weight for substances that meet any of the following 
criteria: 
— substances that are persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic in 
accordance with the criteria set out in Annex XIII, 
— substances that are very persistent and very bioaccumulative 
in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex XIII, 
— substances included in the list established in accordance with 
Article 59(1) for reasons other than the hazards referred to in 
point (a) of this subsection such as endocrine disrupting prop­
erties; 
— identified as having endocrine disrupting properties in 
accordance with the criteria set out in Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2017/2100 or Regulation (EU) 2018/605; 
(c) 0,1 % of a substance classified as skin sensitiser category 1 or 
1B, respiratory sensitiser category 1 or 1B, or carcinogenic 
category 2; 
(d) 0,01 % of a substance classified as skin sensitiser category 1A or 
respiratory sensitiser category 1A; 
(e) one tenth of the specific concentration limit for a substance clas­
sified as skin sensitiser or respiratory sensitiser with a specific 
concentration limit; 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 126 
(f) 0,1 % of a substance classified as toxic to reproduction categories 
1A, 1B or 2, or with effects on or via lactation. 
3.2.3. 
For the substances indicated in subsection 3.2: 
— the classification of the substance according to Regulation (EC) 
No 1272/2008, including the hazard class(es) and category 
code(s) as provided in Table 1.1 of Annex VI to that Regulation 
as well as the hazard statements and supplemental hazard state­
ments, shall be provided. The hazard statements and the supple­
mental hazard statements do not need to be written out in full in 
this subsection; their codes shall be sufficient. In cases where they 
are not written out in full, reference shall be made to section 16, 
where the full text of each relevant hazard statement shall be 
listed. If the substance does not meet the classification criteria, 
the reason for indicating the substance in subsection 3.2 shall be 
described, such as ‘non-classified vPvB substance’ or ‘substance 
with a Union workplace exposure limit’. 
— the specific concentration limit, the M-factor and the acute 
toxicity estimate for the substance in Part 3 of Annex VI to 
Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 or as determined in accordance 
with Annex I to that Regulation shall be indicated, if available. 
— if the substance as used in the mixture is in nanoform and is as 
such registered or addressed by the downstream user chemical 
safety report, the particle characteristics that specify the 
nanoform, as described in Annex VI, shall be indicated. If the 
substance as used in the mixture is in nanoform but is not 
registered or addressed by the downstream user chemical safety 
report, the particle characteristics which have impact on the safety 
of the mixture, shall be provided. 
3.2.4. 
For the substances indicated in subsection 3.2 the name and, if 
available, the registration number, as assigned under Article 20(3) 
of this Regulation, shall be given. 
Without affecting the obligations of downstream users laid down in 
Article 39 of this Regulation, the part of the registration number 
referring to the individual registrant of a joint submission may be 
omitted by the supplier of the mixture provided that: 
(a) this supplier assumes the responsibility to provide the full regis­
tration number upon request for enforcement purposes or, if the 
full registration number is not available to him, to forward the 
request to his supplier, in line with point (b); and 
(b) this supplier provides the full registration number to the Member 
State authority responsible for enforcement (hereinafter referred to 
as the enforcement authority) within seven days upon request, 
received either directly from the enforcement authority or 
forwarded by his recipient, or, if the full registration number is 
not available to him, this supplier shall forward the request to his 
supplier within seven days upon request and at the same time 
inform the enforcement authority thereof. 
The EC number, if available, shall be given in accordance with 
Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008. The CAS number, if available, and 
the IUPAC name, if available, may also be given. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 127 
For substances indicated in this subsection by means of an alternative 
chemical name in accordance with Article 24 of Regulation (EC) No 
1272/2008, the registration number, EC number and other precise 
chemical identifiers are not necessary. 
4. 
SECTION 4: First aid measures 
This section of the safety data sheet shall describe the initial care in 
such a way that an untrained responder can understand and provide it 
without the use of sophisticated equipment and without the availabil­
ity of a wide selection of medications. If medical attention is required, 
the instructions shall state this, including its urgency. 
4.1. 
Description of first aid measures 
4.1.1. 
First aid instructions shall be provided by relevant routes of exposure. 
Subdivisions shall be used to indicate the procedure for each route, 
such as inhalation, skin, eye and ingestion. 
4.1.2. 
Advice shall be provided as to whether: 
(a) immediate medical attention is required and if delayed effects can 
be expected after exposure; 
(b) movement of the exposed individual from the area to fresh air is 
recommended; 
(c) removal and handling of clothing and shoes from the individual is 
recommended; and 
(d) personal protective equipment for first aid responders is recom­
mended. 
4.2. 
Most important symptoms and effects, both acute and delayed 
Briefly summarised information shall be provided on the most 
important symptoms and effects, both acute and delayed, from 
exposure. 
4.3. 
Indication of any immediate medical attention and special 
treatment needed 
Where appropriate, information shall be provided on clinical testing 
and medical monitoring for delayed effects, specific details on 
antidotes (where they are known) and contraindications. 
For some substances or mixtures, it may be important to emphasise 
that special means to provide specific and immediate treatment shall 
be available at the workplace. 
5. 
SECTION 5: Firefighting measures 
This section of the safety data sheet shall describe the requirements 
for fighting a fire caused by the substance or mixture, or arising in its 
vicinity. 
5.1. 
Extinguishing media 
Suitable extinguishing media: 
Information shall be provided on the appropriate extinguishing media. 
Unsuitable extinguishing media: 
Indications shall be given whether any extinguishing media are in­
appropriate for a particular situation involving the substance or 
mixture (e.g. avoid high pressure media which could cause the 
formation of a potentially explosible dust-air mixture). 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 128 
5.2. 
Special hazards arising from the substance or mixture 
Information shall be provided on hazards that may arise from the 
substance or mixture, like hazardous combustion products that form 
when the substance or mixture burns, such as ‘may produce toxic 
fumes of carbon monoxide if burning’ or ‘produces oxides of sulphur 
and nitrogen on combustion’. 
5.3. 
Advice for firefighters 
Advice shall be provided on any protective actions to be taken during 
firefighting, such as ‘keep containers cool with water spray’, and on 
special protective equipment for firefighters, such as boots, overalls, 
gloves, eye and face protection and breathing apparatus. 
6. 
SECTION 6: Accidental release measures 
This section of the safety data sheet shall recommend the appropriate 
response to spills, leaks, or releases, to prevent or minimise the 
adverse effects on persons, property and the environment. It shall 
distinguish between responses to large and small spills, in cases 
where the spill volume has a significant impact on the hazard. If 
the procedures for containment and recovery indicate that different 
practices are required, these shall be indicated in the safety data sheet. 
6.1. 
Personal precautions, protective equipment and emergency 
procedures 
6.1.1. 
For non-emergency personnel 
Advice shall be provided related to accidental spills and release of the 
s