0. 
The European Parliament, upon a recommendation from the 
Council, shall, before 30 April of year N + 2, give a discharge to the 
Executive Director in respect of the implementation of the budget for 
year N. 
Article 98 
Combating fraud 
1. 
In order to combat fraud, corruption and other unlawful activities, 
the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 concerning investi­
gations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) ( 1 ) 
shall apply without restrictions to the Agency. 
2. 
The Agency shall be bound by the Interinstitutional Agreement of 
25 May 1999 between the European Parliament, the Council of the 
European Union and the Commission of the European Communities 
concerning internal investigations by the European Anti-Fraud Office 
(OLAF) ( 2 ) and shall issue, without delay, the appropriate provisions 
applicable to all of its staff. 
3. 
The decisions concerning 
funding 
and 
the implementing 
agreements and instruments resulting from them shall explicitly 
stipulate that the Court of Auditors and OLAF may carry out, if 
necessary, on-the-spot checks of the recipients of the Agency's 
funding and the agents responsible for allocating it. 
▼C1 
( 1 ) OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1. 
( 2 ) OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 15.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 88 
Article 99 
Financial rules 
The financial rules applicable to the Agency shall be adopted by the 
Management Board after the Commission has been consulted. They may 
not depart from Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 unless 
specifically necessary for the Agency's operation and with the Commis­
sion's prior consent. 
Article 100 
Legal personality of the Agency 
1. 
The Agency shall be a body of the Community and shall have 
legal personality. In each Member State it shall enjoy the most extensive 
legal capacity accorded to legal persons under their laws. In particular it 
may acquire and dispose of movable and immovable property and may 
be a party to legal proceedings. 
2. 
The Agency shall be represented by its Executive Director. 
Article 101 
Liability of the Agency 
1. 
The contractual liability of the Agency shall be governed by the 
law applicable to the contract in question. The Court of Justice shall 
have jurisdiction pursuant to any arbitration clause contained in a 
contract concluded by the Agency. 
2. 
In the case of non-contractual liability, the Agency shall, in 
accordance with the general principles common to the laws of the 
Member States, make good any damage caused by it or by its 
servants in the performance of their duties. 
The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in any dispute relating to 
compensation for such damages. 
3. 
The personal financial and disciplinary liability of its servants 
towards the Agency shall be governed by the relevant rules applying 
to the staff of the Agency. 
Article 102 
Privileges and immunities of the Agency 
The Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European 
Communities shall apply to the Agency. 
Article 103 
Staff rules and regulations 
1. 
The staff of the Agency shall be subject to the Regulations and 
Rules applicable to officials and other servants of the European 
Communities. In respect of its staff, the Agency shall exercise the 
powers which have been devolved to the appointing authority. 
2. 
The Management Board shall, in agreement with the Commission, 
adopt the necessary implementing provisions. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 89 
3. 
The Agency's staff shall consist of officials assigned or seconded 
by the Commission or Member States on a temporary basis and of other 
servants recruited by the Agency as necessary to carry out its tasks. The 
Agency shall recruit its personnel on the basis of a staffing plan to be 
included in the multiannual work programme referred to in 
Article 78(d). 
Article 104 
Languages 
1. 
Regulation No 1 of 15 April 1958 determining the languages to be 
used in the European Economic Community ( 1 ) shall apply to the 
Agency. 
2. 
The translation services required for the functioning of the Agency 
shall be provided by the Translation Centre of the bodies of the 
European Union. 
Article 105 
Duty of confidentiality 
Members of the Management Board, members of the Committees and 
of the Forum, experts and officials and other servants of the Agency, 
shall be required, even after their duties have ceased, not to disclose 
information of the kind covered by the duty of professional secrecy. 
Article 106 
Participation of third countries 
The Management Board may, in agreement with the relevant Committee 
or the Forum, invite representatives of third countries to participate in 
the work of the Agency. 
Article 107 
Participation of international organisations 
The Management Board may, in agreement with the relevant Committee 
or the Forum, invite representatives of international organisations with 
interests in the field of chemicals regulation to participate as observers 
in the work of the Agency. 
Article 108 
Contacts with stakeholder organisations 
The Management Board shall, in agreement with the Commission, 
develop appropriate contacts between the Agency and relevant stake­
holder organisations. 
▼C1 
( 1 ) OJ 17, 6.10.1958, p. 385/58. Regulation as last amended by Council Regu­
lation (EC) No 920/2005 (OJ L 156, 18.6.2005, p. 3).

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 90 
Article 109 
Rules on transparency 
To ensure transparency, the Management Board shall, on the basis of a 
proposal by the Executive Director and in agreement with the 
Commission, adopt rules to ensure the availability to the public of 
regulatory, scientific or technical information concerning the safety of 
substances on their own, in ►M3 mixtures ◄ or in articles which is 
not of a confidential nature. 
Article 110 
Relations with relevant Community bodies 
1. 
The Agency shall cooperate with other Community bodies to 
ensure mutual support in the accomplishment of their respective tasks 
in particular to avoid duplication of work. 
2. 
The Executive Director, having consulted the Committee on Risk 
Assessment and the European Food Safety Authority, shall establish 
rules of procedure concerning substances for which an opinion has 
been sought in a food safety context. These rules of procedure shall 
be adopted by the Management Board, in agreement with the 
Commission. 
This Title shall not otherwise affect the competences vested in the 
European Food Safety Authority. 
3. 
This Title shall not affect the competences vested in the European 
Medicines Agency. 
4. 
The Executive Director, having consulted the Committee on Risk 
Assessment, the Committee on Socio-economic Analysis and the 
Advisory Committee on Safety, Hygiene and Health Protection at 
Work, shall establish rules of procedure concerning worker protection 
issues. These rules of procedure shall be adopted by the Management 
Board, in agreement with the Commission. 
This Title shall not affect the competences vested in the Advisory 
Committee on Safety, Hygiene and Health Protection at Work and the 
European Agency for Health and Safety at Work. 
Article 111 
Formats and software for submission of information to the Agency 
The Agency shall specify formats and make them available free of 
charge, and software packages and make them available on its 
website for any submissions to the Agency. Member States, manufac­
tures, importers, distributors or downstream users shall use these formats 
and packages in their submissions to the Agency pursuant to this Regu­
lation. In particular, the Agency shall make available software tools to 
facilitate the submission of all information relating to substances 
registered in accordance with Article 12(1). 
For the purposes of registration, the format of the technical dossier 
referred to in Article 10(a) shall be IUCLID. The Agency shall coor­
dinate the further development of this format with the Organisation for 
Economic Cooperation and Development to ensure maximum harmon­
isation. 
▼M3 
__________ 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 91 
TITLE XII 
INFORMATION 
Article 117 
Reporting 
1. 
Every five years, Member States shall submit to the Commission a 
report on the operation of this Regulation in their respective territories, 
including sections on evaluation and enforcement as described in 
Article 127. 
The first report shall be submitted by 1 June 2010. 
2. 
Every five years, the Agency shall submit to the Commission a 
report on the operation of this Regulation. The Agency shall include in 
its report information on the joint submission of information in 
accordance with Article 11 and an overview of the explanations given 
for submitting information separately. 
The first report shall be submitted by 1 June 2011. 
3. 
Every three years the Agency, in accordance with the objective of 
promoting non-animal testing methods, shall submit to the Commission 
a report on the status of implementation and use of non-animal test 
methods and testing strategies used to generate information on 
intrinsic properties and for risk assessment to meet the requirements 
of this Regulation. 
The first report shall be submitted by 1 June 2011. 
4. 
Every five years, the Commission shall publish a general report 
on: 
(a) the experience acquired with the operation of this Regulation, 
including the information referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 and; 
(b) the amount and distribution of funding made available by the 
Commission for the development and evaluation of alternative test 
methods. 
The first report shall be published by 1 June 2012. 
Article 118 
Access to information 
1. 
Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 shall apply to documents held by 
the Agency. 
2. 
Disclosure of the following information shall normally be deemed 
to undermine the protection of the commercial interests of the concerned 
person: 
(a) details of the full composition 