Agency whether a 
registration has already been submitted for the same substance. He shall 
submit all the following information to the Agency with the inquiry: 
(a) his identity as specified in Section 1 of Annex VI, with the 
exception of the use sites; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 35 
(b) the identity of the substance, as specified in Section 2 of Annex VI; 
(c) which information requirements would require new studies 
involving vertebrate animals to be carried out by him; 
(d) which information requirements would require other new studies to 
be carried out by him. 
2. 
If the same substance has previously not been registered, the 
Agency shall inform the potential registrant accordingly. 
3. 
If the same substance has previously been registered less than 12 
years earlier, the Agency shall inform the potential registrant without 
delay of the names and addresses of the previous registrant(s) and of the 
relevant summaries or robust study summaries, as the case may be, 
already submitted by them. 
Studies involving vertebrate animals shall not be repeated. 
The Agency shall simultaneously inform the previous registrants of the 
name and address of the potential registrant. The available studies shall 
be shared with the potential registrant in accordance with Article 27. 
4. 
If several potential registrants have made an inquiry in respect of 
the same substance, the Agency shall inform all potential registrants 
without delay of the name and address of the other potential registrants. 
Article 27 
Sharing of existing data in the case of registered substances 
1. 
Where a substance has previously been registered less than 12 
years earlier as referred to in Article 26(3), the potential registrant: 
(a) shall, in the case of information involving tests on vertebrate 
animals; and 
(b) may, in the case of information not involving tests on vertebrate 
animals, 
request from the previous registrant(s) the information he requires with 
respect to Article 10(a)(vi) and (vii) in order to register. 
2. 
When a request for information has been made according to 
paragraph 1, the potential and the previous registrant(s) as referred to 
in paragraph 1 shall make every effort to reach an agreement on the 
sharing of the information requested by the potential registrant(s) with 
respect to Article 10(a)(vi) and (vii). Such an agreement may be 
replaced by submission of the matter to an arbitration board and 
acceptance of the arbitration order. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 36 
3. 
The previous registrant and potential registrant(s) shall make every 
effort to ensure that the costs of sharing the information are determined 
in a fair, transparent and non-discriminatory way. This may be 
facilitated by following cost sharing guidance based on those principles 
which is adopted by the Agency in accordance with Article 77(2)(g). 
Registrants are only required to share in the costs of information that 
they are required to submit to satisfy their registration requirements. 
4. 
On agreement on the sharing of the information, the previous 
registrant shall make available to the new registrant the agreed 
information and shall give the new registrant the permission to refer 
to the previous registrant's full study report. 
5. 
If there is failure to reach such an agreement, the potential regis­
trant(s) shall inform the Agency and the previous registrant(s) thereof at 
the earliest one month after receipt, from the Agency, of the name and 
address of the previous registrant(s). 
6. 
Within one month from the receipt of the information referred to 
in paragraph 5, the Agency shall give the potential registrant permission 
to refer to the information requested by him in his registration dossier, 
subject to the potential registrant providing, upon request by the 
Agency, proof that he has paid the previous registrant(s) for that 
information a share of cost incurred. The previous registrant(s) shall 
have a claim on the potential registrant for a proportionate share of 
the cost incurred by him. Calculation of the proportionate share may 
be facilitated by the guidance adopted by the Agency in accordance 
with Article 77(2)(g). Provided he makes the full study report 
available to the potential registrant, the previous registrant(s) shall 
have a claim on the potential registrant for an equal share of the cost 
incurred by him, which shall be enforceable in the national courts. 
7. 
An appeal may be brought, in accordance with Articles 91, 92 and 
93, against Agency decisions under paragraph 6 of this Article. 
8. 
The registration waiting period in accordance with Article 21(1) 
for the new registrant shall be extended by a period of four months, if 
the previous registrant so requests. 
CHAPTER 3 
Rules for phase-in-substances 
Article 28 
Duty to pre-register for phase-in substances 
1. 
In order to benefit from the transitional regime provided for in 
Article 23 each potential registrant of a phase-in substance in quantities 
of one tonne or more per year, including without limitation inter­
mediates, shall submit all the following information to the Agency: 
(a) the name of the substance as specified in Section 2 of Annex VI, 
including its EINECS and CAS number or, if not available, any 
other identity codes; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 37 
(b) his name and address and the name of the contact person and, 
where appropriate, the name and address of the person representing 
him in accordance with Article 4 as specified in Section 1 of 
Annex VI; 
(c) the envisaged deadline for the registration and the tonnage band; 
(d) the name(s) of substance(s) as specified in Section 2 of Annex VI, 
including their EINECS and CAS number or, if not available, any 
other identity codes, for which the available information is relevant 
for the application of Sections 1.3 and 1.5 of Annex XI. 
2. 
The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be submitted 
within a time period starting on 1 June 2008 and ending on 
1 December 2008. 
3. 
Registrants who do not submit the information required under 
paragraph 1 shall not be able to rely on Article 23. 
4. 
The Agency shall by 1 January 2009 publish on its website a list 
of the substances referred to in paragraph 1(a) and (d). That list shall 
comprise only the names of the substances, including their EINECS and 
CAS number if available and other identity codes, and the first 
envisaged registration deadline. 
5. 
After the publication of the list a downstream user of a substance 
not appearing on the list may notify the Agency of his interest in the 
substance, his contact details and the details of his current supplier. The 
Agency shall publish on its website the name of the substance and on 
request provide contact details of the downstream user to a potential 
registrant. 
6. 
Potential registrants who manufacture or import for the first time a 
phase-in substance in quantities of one tonne or more per year or use for 
the first time a phase-in substance in the context of production of 
articles or import for the first time an article containing a phase-in 
substance that would require registration, after 1 December 2008, 
shall be entitled to rely on Article 23 provided that they submit the 
information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to the Agency 
within six months of first manufacturing, importing or using the 
substance in quantities of one tonne or more per year and no later 
than 12 months before the relevant deadline in Article 23. 
7. 
Manufacturers or importers of phase-in substances in quantities of 
less than one tonne per year that appear on the list published by the 
Agency in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article, as well as 
downstream users of those substances and third parties holding 
information on those substances, may submit the information referred 
to in paragraph 1 of this Article or any other relevant information to the 
Agency for those substances, with the intention of being part of the 
substance information exchange forum as referred to in Article 29. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 38 
Article 29 
Substance Information Exchange Forums 
1. 
All potential registrants, downstream users and third parties who 
have submitted information to the Agency in accordance with Article 28, 
or whose information is held by the Agency in accordance with 
Article 15, for the same phase-in substance, or registrants who have 
submitted a registration for that phase-in substance before the deadline 
set out in Article 23(3), shall be participants in a substance information 
exchange forum (SIEF). 
2. 
The aim of each SIEF shall be to: 
(a) facilitate, for the purposes of registration, the exchange of the 
information specified in Article 10(a) (vi) and (vii) between 
potential registrants, thereby avoiding the duplication of studies; and 
(b) agree classification and labelling where there is a difference in the 
classification and labelling of the substance between potential regis­
trants. 
3. 
SIEF participants shall provide other participants with existing 
studies, react to requests by other participants for information, collec­
tively identify needs for further studies for the purposes of paragraph 
2(a) and arrange for such studies to be carried out. Each SIEF shall be 
operational until 1 June 2018. 
Article 30 
Sharing of data involving tests 
1. 
Before testing is carried out in order to meet the information 
requirements for the purposes of registration, a SIEF participant shall 
inquire whether a relevant study is available by communicating within 
his SIEF. If a relevant study involving tests on vertebrate animals is 
available within the SIEF, a participant of that SIEF shall request that 
study. If a relevant study not involving tests on vertebrate animals is 
available within the SIEF, a SIEF participant may request that study. 
Within one month of the request, the