ng 
that the substance or mixture is not hazardous or any other statements 
that are inconsistent with the classification of that substance or 
mixture shall not be used. 
0.2.5. 
The date of compilation of the safety data sheet shall be given on the 
first page. When a safety data sheet has been revised and the new, 
revised version is provided to recipients, the changes shall be brought 
to the attention of the recipients in Section 16 of the safety data sheet, 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 118 
unless the changes have been indicated elsewhere. For the revised 
safety data sheets, the date of compilation, identified as ‘Revision: 
(date)’, shall appear on the first page, as well as one or more indi­
cations of which version is replaced, such as version number, revision 
number, or supersedes date. 
0.3. 
Safety data sheet format 
0.3.1. 
A safety data sheet is not a fixed length document. The length of the 
safety data sheet shall be commensurate with the hazard of the 
substance or mixture and the information available. 
0.3.2. 
All pages of a safety data sheet, including any annexes, shall be 
numbered and shall bear either an indication of the length of the 
safety data sheet (such as ‘page 1 of 3’) or an indication whether 
there is a page following (such as ‘Continued on next page’ or ‘End 
of safety data sheet’). 
0.4. 
Safety data sheet content 
The information required by this Annex shall be included in the safety 
data sheet, where applicable and available, in the relevant subsections 
set out in Part B. The safety data sheet shall not contain blank 
subsections. 
0.5. 
Other information requirements 
The inclusion of additional relevant and available information in the 
relevant subsections may be necessary in some cases in view of the 
wide range of properties of substances and mixtures. 
Additional safety and environmental information is required to address 
the needs of seafarers and other transport workers in the bulk transport 
of dangerous goods in sea-going or inland navigation bulk carriers or 
tank-vessels subject to International Maritime Organisation (IMO) or 
national regulations. Subsection 14.7 recommends the inclusion of 
basic classification information when such cargoes are transported in 
bulk according to the relevant IMO instruments. In addition, ships 
carrying oil or oil fuel, as defined in Annex I of MARPOL ( 1 ), in 
bulk or bunkering oil fuel are required, before loading, to be provided 
with a ‘material safety data sheet’ in accordance with the IMO’s 
Maritime Safety Committee (MSC) resolution ‘Recommendations 
for Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for MARPOL Annex I Oil 
Cargo and Oil Fuel’ (MSC.286(86)). Therefore, in order to have one 
harmonised safety data sheet for maritime and non-maritime use, the 
additional provisions of Resolution MSC.286(86) may be included in 
the safety data sheets, where appropriate, for marine transport of 
MARPOL Annex I cargoes and marine fuel oils. 
0.6. 
Units 
The units of measurement as set out in Council Directive 
80/181/EEC ( 2 ) shall be used. 
▼M58 
( 1 ) Marpol – Consolidated edition 2006, London, IMO 2007, ISBN 978-92-801-4216-7. 
( 2 ) Council Directive 80/181/EEC of 20 December 1979 on the approximation of the laws 
of the Member States relating to units of measurement and on the repeal of Directive 
71/354/EEC (OJ L 39, 15.2.1980, p. 40).

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 119 
0.7. 
Special cases 
Safety data sheets shall also be required for the special cases listed in 
paragraph 1.3 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 for which 
there are labelling derogations. 
1. 
SECTION 1: Identification of the substance/mixture and of the 
company/undertaking 
This section of the safety data sheet shall prescribe how the substance 
or mixture shall be identified and how the identified relevant uses, the 
name of the supplier of the substance or mixture and the contact detail 
information of the supplier of the substance or mixture, including an 
emergency contact, shall be provided in the safety data sheet. 
1.1. 
Product identifier 
The product identifier shall be provided in accordance with 
Article 18(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 in the case of a 
substance and in accordance with Article 18(3)(a) of Regulation 
(EC) No 1272/2008 in the case of a mixture, and as provided on 
the label in the official language(s) of the Member State(s) where 
the substance or mixture is placed on the market, unless the 
Member State(s) concerned provide(s) otherwise. 
For substances subject to registration, the product identifier shall be 
consistent with that provided in the registration and the registration 
number assigned under Article 20(3) of this Regulation shall also be 
indicated. Additional identifiers may be provided even if they have 
not been used in the registration. 
Without affecting the obligations of downstream users laid down in 
Article 39 of this Regulation, the part of the registration number 
referring to the individual registrant of a joint submission may be 
omitted by a supplier who is a distributor or a downstream user 
provided that: 
(a) this supplier assumes the responsibility to provide the full regis­
tration number upon request for enforcement purposes or, if the 
full registration number is not available to him, to forward the 
request to his supplier, in line with point (b); and 
(b) this supplier provides the full registration number to the Member 
State authority responsible for enforcement (the enforcement 
authority) within 7 days upon request, received either directly 
from the enforcement authority or forwarded by his recipient, 
or, if the full registration number is not available to him, this 
supplier shall forward the request to his supplier within 7 days 
upon request and at the same time inform the enforcement 
authority thereof. 
A single safety data sheet may be provided to cover more than one 
substance or mixture where the information in that safety data sheet 
fulfils the requirements of this Annex for each of those substances or 
mixtures. 
Where different forms of a substance are covered by one safety data 
sheet, relevant information shall be included, clearly indicating which 
information is related to which form. Alternatively, a separate safety 
data sheet may be prepared per form or group of forms. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 120 
If the safety data sheet pertains to one or more nanoforms, or 
substances that include nanoforms, this shall be indicated by using 
the word ‘nanoform’. 
Other means of identification 
Other names or synonyms by which the substance or mixture is 
labelled or commonly known may be provided. 
Where a mixture has a unique formula identifier (UFI) in accordance 
with section 5 of Part A of Annex VIII to Regulation (EC) No 
1272/2008 and that UFI is indicated in the safety data sheet, then 
the UFI shall be provided in this subsection. 
1.2. 
Relevant identified uses of the substance or mixture and uses 
advised against 
At least a brief description of the identified uses (for example, floor 
cleaning, or industrial use in polymer production, or professional use 
in cleaning agents) relevant for the recipient(s) of the substance or 
mixture shall be indicated. 
The uses which the supplier advises against and the reasons why 
shall, where applicable, be stated. This need not be an exhaustive list. 
Where a chemical safety report is required, the information in this 
subsection of the safety data sheet shall be consistent with the 
identified uses in the chemical safety report and the exposure 
scenarios from the chemical safety report set out in the annex to 
the safety data sheet. 
1.3. 
Details of the supplier of the safety data sheet 
The supplier of the safety data sheet, whether it is the manufacturer, 
importer, only representative, downstream user or distributor, shall be 
identified. The full address and telephone number of the supplier shall 
be given as well as an email address for a competent person 
responsible for the safety data sheet. 
In addition, if the supplier is not located in the Member State where 
the substance or mixture is placed on the market and he has 
nominated a responsible person for that Member State, a full 
address and telephone number for that responsible person shall be 
given. 
Where an only representative has been appointed, details of the non- 
Union manufacturer or formulator may also be provided. 
For registrants, the information on the supplier of the safety data 
sheet and, if provided, on the supplier of the substance or mixture, 
shall be consistent with the information on the identity of the manu­
facturer, importer or only representative provided in the registration. 
1.4. 
Emergency telephone number 
References to emergency information services shall be provided. If an 
official advisory body exists in the Member State where the substance 
or mixture is placed on the market (this may be the body responsible 
for receiving information relating to health referred to in Article 45 of 
Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008), its telephone number shall be given 
and can suffice. If availability of such services is limited for any 
reasons, such as hours of operation, or if there are limits on 
specific types of information provided, this shall be clearly stated. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 121 
2. 
SECTION 2: Hazards identification 
This section of the safety data sheet shall describe the hazards of the 
substance or mixture and the appropriate warning information asso­
ciated with those hazards. 
2.1. 
Classification of the substance or mixture 
The classification of the substance or the mixture which results from 
the application of the classification criteria in Regulation (EC) No 
1272/2008 shall be given. Where the supplier has notified information 
regarding the substance to the classification and labelling inventory in 
accordance with Article