 owner of the study shall provide 
proof of its cost to the participant(s) requesting it. The participant(s) and 
the owner shall make every effort to ensure that the costs of sharing the 
information are determined in a fair, transparent and non discriminatory 
way. This may be facilitated by following any cost sharing guidance 
which is based on those principles and is adopted by the Agency in 
accordance with Article 77(2)(g). If they cannot reach such an 
agreement, the cost shall be shared equally. The owner shall give 
permission to refer to the full study report for the purpose of registration 
within two weeks of receipt of payment. Registrants are only required to 
share in the costs of information that they are required to submit to 
satisfy their registration requirements. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 39 
2. 
If a relevant study involving tests is not available within the SIEF, 
only one study shall be conducted per information requirement within 
each SIEF by one of its participants acting on behalf of the others. They 
shall take all reasonable steps to reach an agreement within a deadline 
set by the Agency as to who is to carry out the test on behalf of the 
other participants and to submit a summary or robust study summary to 
the Agency. If no agreement is reached, the Agency shall specify which 
registrant or downstream user shall perform the test. All participants of 
the SIEF who require a study shall contribute to the costs for the 
elaboration of the study with a share corresponding to the number of 
participating potential registrants. Those participants that do not carry 
out the study themselves shall have the right to receive the full study 
report within two weeks following payment to the participant that 
carried out the study. 
3. 
If the owner of a study as referred to in paragraph 1 which 
involves testing on vertebrate animals refuses to provide either proof 
of the cost of that study or the study itself to (an) other participant(s), he 
shall not be able to proceed with registration until he provides the 
information to the other participants(s). The other participant(s) shall 
proceed with registration without fulfilling the relevant information 
requirement, explaining the reason for this in the registration dossier. 
The study shall not be repeated unless within 12 months of the date of 
registration of the other participant(s), the owner of this information has 
not provided it to them and the Agency decides that the test should be 
repeated by them. However, if a registration containing this information 
has already been submitted by another registrant, the Agency shall give 
the other participant(s) permission to refer to the information in his 
registration dossier(s). The other registrant shall have a claim on the 
other participant(s) for an equal share of the cost, provided he makes the 
full study report available to the other participant(s), which shall be 
enforceable in the national courts. 
4. 
If the owner of a study as referred to in paragraph 1 which does 
not involve testing on vertebrate animals refuses to provide either proof 
of the cost of that study or the study itself to (an)other participant(s), the 
other SIEF participants shall proceed with registration as if no relevant 
study was available in the SIEF. 
5. 
An appeal may be brought, in accordance with Articles 91, 92 and 
93, against Agency decisions under paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Article. 
6. 
The owner of the study who has refused to provide either proof of 
the cost or the study itself, as referred to in paragraph 3 or 4 of this 
Article, shall be penalised in accordance with Article 126. 
TITLE IV 
INFORMATION IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 
Article 31 
Requirements for safety data sheets 
1. 
The supplier of a substance or a ►M3 mixture ◄ shall provide 
the recipient of the substance or ►M3 mixture ◄ with a safety data 
sheet compiled in accordance with Annex II: 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 40 
(a) where a substance or mixture meets the criteria for classification as 
hazardous in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008; or 
▼C1 
(b) where a substance is persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic or very 
persistent and very bioaccumulative in accordance with the criteria 
set out in Annex XIII; or 
(c) where a substance is included in the list established in accordance 
with Article 59(1) for reasons other than those referred to in points 
(a) and (b). 
2. 
Any actor in the supply chain who is required, under Articles 14 
or 37, to carry out a chemical safety assessment for a substance shall 
ensure that the information in the safety data sheet is consistent with the 
information in this assessment. If the safety data sheet is developed for a 
►M3 mixture ◄ and the actor in the supply chain has prepared a 
chemical safety assessment for that ►M3 mixture ◄, it is sufficient 
if the information in the safety data sheet is consistent with the chemical 
safety report for the ►M3 mixture ◄ instead of with the chemical 
safety report for each substance in the ►M3 mixture ◄. 
▼M3 
3. 
The supplier shall provide the recipient at his request with a safety 
data sheet compiled in accordance with Annex II, where a mixture does 
not meet the criteria for classification as hazardous in accordance with 
Titles I and II of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008, but contains: 
(a) in an individual concentration of ≥ 1 % by weight for non-gaseous 
mixtures and ≥ 0,2 % by volume for gaseous mixtures at least one 
substance posing human health or environmental hazards; or 
(b) in an individual concentration of ≥ 0,1 % by weight for non-gaseous 
mixtures at least one substance that is carcinogenic category 2 or 
toxic to reproduction category 1A, 1B and 2, skin sensitiser 
category 1, respiratory sensitiser category 1, or has effects on or 
via lactation or is persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) in 
accordance with the criteria set out in Annex XIII or very persistent 
and very bioaccumulative (vPvB) in accordance with the criteria set 
out in Annex XIII or has been included for reasons other than those 
referred to in point (a) in the list established in accordance with 
Article 59(1); or 
(c) a substance for which there are Community workplace exposure 
limits. 
4. 
The safety data sheet need not be supplied where hazardous 
substances or mixtures offered or sold to the general public are 
provided with sufficient information to enable users to take the 
necessary measures as regards the protection of human health, safety 
and the environment, unless requested by a downstream user or 
distributor. 
▼C1 
5. 
The safety data sheet shall be supplied in an official language of 
the Member State(s) where the substance or ►M3 mixture ◄ is placed 
on the market, unless the Member State(s) concerned provide otherwise. 
▼M3

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 41 
6. 
The safety data sheet shall be dated and shall contain the 
following headings: 
1. identification of the substance/►M3 mixture ◄ and of the 
company/undertaking; 
2. hazards identification; 
3. composition/information on ingredients; 
4. first-aid measures; 
5. fire-fighting measures; 
6. accidental release measures; 
7. handling and storage; 
8. exposure controls/personal protection; 
9. physical and chemical properties; 
10. stability and reactivity; 
11. toxicological information; 
12. ecological information; 
13. disposal considerations; 
14. transport information; 
15. regulatory information; 
16. other information. 
7. 
Any actor in the supply chain who is required to prepare a 
chemical safety report according to Articles 14 or 37 shall place the 
relevant exposure scenarios (including use and exposure categories 
where appropriate) in an annex to the safety data sheet covering 
identified uses and including specific conditions resulting from the 
application of Section 3 of Annex XI. 
Any downstream user shall include relevant exposure scenarios, and use 
other relevant information, from the safety data sheet supplied to him 
when compiling his own safety data sheet for identified uses. 
Any distributor shall pass on relevant exposure scenarios, and use other 
relevant information, from the safety data sheet supplied to him when 
compiling his own safety data sheet for uses for which he has passed on 
information according to Article 37(2). 
▼M3 
8. 
A safety data sheet shall be provided free of charge on paper or 
electronically no later than the date on which the substance or mixture is 
first supplied. 
▼C1 
9. 
Suppliers shall update the safety data sheet without delay on the 
following occasions: 
(a) as soon as new information which may affect the risk management 
measures, or new information on hazards becomes available; 
(b) once an authorisation has been granted or refused; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 42 
(c) once a restriction has been imposed. 
The new, dated version of the information, identified as ‘Revision: 
(date)’, shall be provided free of charge on paper or electronically to 
all former recipients to whom they have supplied the substance or 
►M3 mixture ◄ within the preceding 12 months. Any updates 
following registration shall include the registration number. 
▼M3 
10. 
Where substances are classified in accordance with Regulation 
(EC) No 1272/2008 during the period from its entry into force until 
1 December 2010, that classification may be added in the safety data 
sheet together with the classification in accordance with Directive 
67/548/EEC. 
From 1 December 2010 until 1 June 2015, the safety data sheets for 
substances shall contain the classification according to both Directive 
67/548/EEC and Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008. 
Where mixtures are classified in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 
1272/2008 during the period from its entry into force until 1 June 2015, 
that classification may be added in the safety data sheet, together with 
the classification in ac