to the site in question. 
The procedure provided for in the first paragraph may be undertaken 
only by the competent authority referred to therein. The competent 
authority shall inform the Agency of the results of such an evaluation, 
which shall then inform the competent authorities of the other Member 
States and make the results available to them. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 54 
CHAPTER 4 
Common provisions 
Article 50 
Registrants' and downstream users' rights 
1. 
The Agency shall notify any draft decision under Articles 40, 41 
or 46 to the registrant(s) or downstream user(s) concerned, informing 
them of their right to comment within 30 days of receipt. If the 
concerned registrant(s) or downstream user(s) wish to comment, they 
shall provide their comments to the Agency. The Agency in turn shall 
inform the competent authority of the submission of the comments 
without delay. The competent authority (for decisions taken under 
Article 46) and the Agency (for decisions taken under Articles 40 and 
41) shall take any comments received into account and may amend the 
draft decision accordingly. 
2. 
If a registrant has ceased the manufacture or import of the 
substance, or the production or import of an article, or the downstream 
user the use, he shall inform the Agency of this fact with the 
consequence that the registered volume in his registration, if appro­
priate, shall be put to zero and no further information may be 
requested with respect to that substance, unless the registrant notifies 
the restart of the manufacture or import of the substance or the 
production or import of the article, or the downstream user notifies 
the restart of the use. The Agency shall inform the competent 
authority of the Member State in which the registrant or downstream 
user is located. 
3. 
The registrant may cease the manufacture or import of the 
substance or the production or import of the article, or the downstream 
user the use, upon receipt of the draft decision. In such cases, the 
registrant, or downstream user, shall inform the Agency of this fact 
with the consequence that his registration, or report, shall no longer 
be valid, and no further information may be requested with respect to 
that substance, unless he submits a new registration or report. The 
Agency shall inform the competent authority of the Member State in 
which the registrant or downstream user is located. 
4. 
Notwithstanding paragraphs 2 and 3, further information may be 
required in accordance with Article 46 in either or both of the following 
cases: 
(a) where the competent authority prepares a dossier in accordance with 
Annex XV concluding that there is a potential long-term risk to 
human health or the environment justifying the need for further 
information; 
(b) where the exposure to the substance manufactured or imported by 
the registrant(s), or to the substance in the article produced or 
imported by the registrant(s), or to the substance used by the down­
stream user(s) contributes significantly to that risk. 
The procedure in Articles 69 to 73 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 55 
Article 51 
Adoption of decisions under dossier evaluation 
1. 
The Agency shall notify its draft decision in accordance with 
Articles 40 or 41, together with the comments of the registrant, to the 
competent authorities of the Member States. 
2. 
Within 30 days of circulation, the Member States may propose 
amendments to the draft decision to the Agency. 
3. 
If the Agency does not receive any proposals, it shall take the 
decision in the version notified under paragraph 1. 
4. 
If the Agency receives a proposal for amendment, it may modify 
the draft decision. The Agency shall refer a draft decision, together with 
any amendments proposed, to the Member State Committee within 15 
days of the end of the 30-day period referred to in paragraph 2. 
5. 
The Agency shall forthwith communicate any proposal for 
amendment to any registrants or downstream users concerned and 
allow them to comment within 30 days. The Member State 
Committee shall take any comments received into account. 
6. 
If, within 60 days of the referral, the Member State Committee 
reaches a unanimous agreement on the draft decision, the Agency shall 
take the decision accordingly. 
7. 
If the Member State Committee fails to reach unanimous 
agreement, the Commission shall prepare a draft decision to be taken 
in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 133(3). 
8. 
An appeal may be brought, in accordance with Articles 91, 92 and 
93, against Agency decisions under paragraphs 3 and 6 of this Article. 
Article 52 
Adoption of decisions under substance evaluation 
1. 
The competent authority shall circulate its draft decision in 
accordance with Article 46, together with any comments by the 
registrant or downstream user, to the Agency and to the competent 
authorities of the other Member States. 
2. 
The provisions of Article 51(2) to (8) shall apply mutatis 
mutandis. 
Article 53 
Cost sharing for tests without an agreement between registrants 
and/or downstream users 
1. 
Where registrants or downstream users are required to perform a 
test as a result of a decision taken under this Title, those registrants or 
downstream users shall make every effort to reach an agreement as to 
who is to carry it out on behalf of the other registrants or downstream 
users and to inform the Agency accordingly within 90 days. If the 
Agency is not informed of such agreement within such 90 days, it 
shall designate one of the registrants or downstream users to perform 
the test on behalf of all of them. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 56 
2. 
If a registrant or downstream user performs a test on behalf of 
others, they shall all share the cost of that study equally. 
3. 
In the case referred to in paragraph 1, the registrant or downstream 
user who performs the test shall provide each of the others concerned 
with a copy of the full study report. 
4. 
The person performing and submitting the study shall have a claim 
against the others accordingly. Any person concerned shall be able to 
make a claim in order to prohibit another person from manufacturing, 
importing or placing the substance on the market if that other person 
either fails to pay his share of the cost or to provide security for that 
amount or fails to hand over a copy of the full study report of the study 
performed. All claims shall be enforceable in the national courts. Any 
person may choose to submit their claims for remuneration to an 
arbitration board and accept the arbitration order. 
Article 54 
Publication of information on evaluation 
By 28 February of each year, the Agency shall publish on its website a 
report on the progress made over the previous calendar year towards 
discharging the obligations incumbent upon it in relation to evaluation. 
This report shall include, in particular, recommendations to potential 
registrants in order to improve the quality of future registrations. 
TITLE VII 
AUTHORISATION 
CHAPTER 1 
Authorisation requirement 
Article 55 
Aim of authorisation and considerations for substitution 
The aim of this Title is to ensure the good functioning of the internal 
market while assuring that the risks from substances of very high 
concern are properly controlled and that these substances are 
progressively replaced by suitable alternative substances or technologies 
where these are economically and technically viable. To this end all 
manufacturers, importers and downstream users applying for authoris­
ations shall analyse the availability of alternatives and consider their 
risks, and the technical and economic feasibility of substitution. 
Article 56 
General provisions 
1. 
A manufacturer, importer or downstream user shall not place a 
substance on the market for a use or use it himself if that substance is 
included in Annex XIV, unless: 
(a) the use(s) of that substance on its own or in a ►M3 mixture ◄ or 
the incorporation of the substance into an article for which the 
substance is placed on the market or for which he uses the 
substance himself has been authorised in accordance with Articles 
60 to 64; or 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 57 
(b) the use(s) of that substance on its own or in a ►M3 mixture ◄ or 
the incorporation of the substance into an article for which the 
substance is placed on the market or for which he uses the 
substance himself has been exempted from the authorisation 
requirement in Annex XIV itself in accordance with Article 58(2); or 
(c) the date referred to in Article 58(1)(c)(i) has not been reached; or 
(d) the date referred to in Article 58(1)(c)(i) has been reached and he 
made an application 18 months before that date but a decision on 
the application for authorisation has not yet been taken; or 
(e) in cases where the substance is placed on the market, authorisation 
for that use has been granted to his immediate downstream user. 
2. 
A downstream user may use a substance meeting the criteria set 
out in paragraph 1 provided that the use is in accordance with the 
conditions of an authorisation granted to an actor up his supply chain 
for that use. 
3. 
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the use of substances in 
scientific research and development. Annex XIV shall specify if para­
graphs 1 and 2 apply to product and process orientated research and 
development as well as the maximum quantity exempted. 
4. 
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the following uses of 
substances: 
(a) uses in plant protection products within the scope of Directive 
91/414/EEC; 
(b) uses in biocidal products within the scope of Directive 98/8/EC; 
(c) use as motor fuels covered by Directive 98/70/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 1998 relating to the 
quality of petrol and diesel fuels ( 1 ); 
(d) uses as fuel in mobile or fixed 