. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 50 
2. 
Once the dossier evaluation is completed, the Agency shall notify 
the Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States of 
the information obtained and any conclusions made. The competent 
authorities shall use the information obtained from this evaluation for 
the purposes of Article 45(5), Article 59(3) and Article 69(4). The 
Agency shall use the information obtained from this evaluation for 
the purposes of Article 44. 
Article 43 
Procedure and time periods for examination of testing proposals 
1. 
In the case of non phase-in substances, the Agency shall prepare a 
draft decision in accordance with Article 40(3) within 180 days of 
receiving a registration or downstream user report containing a testing 
proposal. 
2. 
In the case of phase-in substances, the Agency shall prepare the 
draft decisions in accordance with Article 40(3): 
(a) by 1 December 2012 for all registrations received by 1 December 
2010 containing proposals for testing in order to fulfil the 
information requirements in Annexes IX and X; 
(b) by 1 June 2016 for all registrations received by 1 June 2013 
containing proposals for testing in order to fulfil the information 
requirements in Annex IX only; 
(c) by 1 June 2022 for any registrations containing testing proposals 
received by 1 June 2018. 
3. 
The list of registration dossiers being evaluated under Article 40 
shall be made available to Member States. 
CHAPTER 2 
Substance evaluation 
Article 44 
Criteria for substance evaluation 
1. 
In order to ensure a harmonised approach, the Agency shall in 
cooperation with the Member States develop criteria for prioritising 
substances with a view to further evaluation. Prioritisation shall be on 
a risk-based approach. The criteria shall consider: 
(a) hazard information, for instance structural similarity of the 
substance with known substances of concern or with substances 
which are persistent and liable to bio-accumulate, suggesting that 
the substance or one or more of its transformation products has 
properties of concern or is persistent and liable to bio-accumulate; 
(b) exposure information; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 51 
(c) tonnage, including aggregated tonnage from the registrations 
submitted by several registrants. 
2. 
The Agency shall use the criteria in paragraph 1 for the purpose of 
compiling a draft Community rolling action plan which shall cover a 
period of three years and shall specify substances to be evaluated each 
year. Substances shall be included if there are grounds for considering 
(either on the basis of a dossier evaluation carried out by the Agency or 
on the basis of any other appropriate source, including information in 
the registration dossier) that a given substance constitutes a risk to 
human health or the environment. The Agency shall submit the first 
draft rolling action plan to the Member States by 1 December 2011. The 
Agency shall submit draft annual updates to the rolling action plan to 
the Member States by 28 February each year. 
The Agency shall adopt the final Community rolling action plan on the 
basis of an opinion from the Member State Committee set up under 
Article 76(1)(e) (hereinafter referred to as the Member State Committee) 
and shall publish the plan on its website, identifying the Member State 
who will carry out the evaluation of the substances listed therein as 
determined according to Article 45. 
Article 45 
Competent authority 
1. 
The Agency shall be responsible for coordinating the substance 
evaluation process and ensuring that substances on the Community 
rolling action plan are evaluated. In doing so, the Agency shall rely 
on the competent authorities of Member States. In carrying out an 
evaluation of a substance, the competent authorities may appoint 
another body to act on their behalf. 
2. 
A Member State may choose (a) substance(s) from the draft 
Community rolling action plan, with the aim of becoming a 
competent authority for the purposes of Articles 46, 47 and 48. In the 
event of a substance from the draft Community rolling action plan not 
being chosen by any Member State, the Agency shall ensure that the 
substance is evaluated. 
3. 
In cases where two or more Member States have expressed an 
interest in evaluating the same substance and they cannot agree who 
should be the competent authority, the competent authority for the 
purposes of Articles 46, 47 and 48 shall be determined in accordance 
with the following procedure. 
The Agency shall refer the matter to the Member State Committee, in 
order to agree which authority shall be the competent authority, taking 
into account the Member State in which the manufacturer(s) or 
importer(s) is located, the respective proportions of total Community 
gross domestic product, the number of substances already being 
evaluated by a Member State and the expertise available. 
If, within 60 days of the referral, the Member State Committee reaches 
unanimous agreement, the Member States concerned shall adopt 
substances for evaluation accordingly. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 52 
If the Member State Committee fails to reach a unanimous agreement, 
the Agency shall submit the conflicting opinions to the Commission, 
which shall decide which authority shall be the competent authority, in 
accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 133(3), and the 
Member States concerned shall adopt substances for evaluation accord­
ingly. 
4. 
The competent authority identified in accordance with paragraphs 
2 and 3 shall evaluate the allocated substances in accordance with this 
Chapter. 
5. 
A Member State may notify the Agency at any time of a substance 
not on the Community rolling action plan, whenever it is in possession 
of information which suggests that the substance is a priority for evalu­
ation. The Agency shall decide whether to add this substance to the 
Community rolling action plan on the basis of an opinion from the 
Member State Committee. If the substance is added to the 
Community rolling action plan, the proposing Member State, or 
another Member State who agrees, shall evaluate that substance. 
Article 46 
Requests for further information and check of information 
submitted 
1. 
If the competent authority considers that further information is 
required, including, if appropriate, information not required in 
Annexes VII to X, it shall prepare a draft decision, stating reasons, 
requiring the registrant(s) to submit the further information and setting 
a deadline for its submission. A draft decision shall be prepared within 
12 months of the publication of the Community rolling action plan on 
the Agency's website for substances to be evaluated that year. The 
decision shall be taken in accordance with the procedure laid down in 
Articles 50 and 52. 
2. 
The registrant shall submit the information required to the Agency 
by the deadline set. 
3. 
The competent authority shall examine any information submitted, 
and shall draft any appropriate decisions in accordance with this Article, 
if necessary, within 12 months of the information being submitted. 
4. 
The competent authority shall finish its evaluation activities within 
12 months of the start of the evaluation of the substance or within 12 
months of the information being submitted under paragraph 2, and 
notify the Agency accordingly. If this deadline is exceeded, the 
evaluation shall be deemed to be finished. 
Article 47 
Coherence with other activities 
1. 
An evaluation of a substance shall be based on all relevant 
information submitted on that particular substance and on any 
previous evaluation under this Title. Where information on intrinsic 
properties of a substance has been generated by reference to structurally 
related substance(s), the evaluation may also cover these related 
substances. In cases where a decision on an evaluation has been 
previously taken in accordance with Article 51 or Article 52, any 
draft decision requiring further information under Article 46 may be 
justified only by a change of circumstances or acquired knowledge. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 53 
2. 
In order to ensure a harmonised approach to requests for further 
information, the Agency shall monitor draft decisions under Article 46 
and shall develop criteria and priorities. Where appropriate, implemen­
ting measures shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure 
referred to in Article 133(3). 
Article 48 
Follow-up to substance evaluation 
Once the substance evaluation has been completed, the competent 
authority shall consider how to use the information obtained from this 
evaluation for the purposes of Article 59(3), Article 69(4) and 
Article 115(1). The competent authority shall inform the Agency of 
its conclusions as to whether or how to use the information obtained. 
The Agency shall in turn inform the Commission, the registrant and the 
competent authorities of the other Member States. 
CHAPTER 3 
Evaluation of intermediates 
Article 49 
Further information on on-site isolated intermediates 
For on-site isolated intermediates that are used in strictly controlled 
conditions, neither dossier nor substance evaluation shall apply. 
However, where the competent authority of the Member State in 
whose territory the site is located considers that a risk to human 
health or the environment, equivalent to the level of concern arising 
from the use of substances meeting the criteria in Article 57, arises from 
the use of an on-site isolated intermediate and that risk is not properly 
controlled, it may: 
(a) require the registrant to submit further information directly related 
to the risk identified. This request shall be accompanied by a written 
justification; 
(b) examine any information submitted and, if necessary, recommend 
any appropriate risk reduction measures to address the risks 
identified in relation 