essed on a Community- 
wide basis, Annex XVII shall be amended in accordance with the 
procedure referred to in Article 133(4) by adopting new restrictions, 
or amending current restrictions in Annex XVII, for the manufacture, 
use or placing on the market of substances on their own, in 
►M3 mixtures ◄ or in articles, pursuant to the procedure set out in 
Articles 69 to 73. Any such decision shall take into account the socio- 
economic impact of the restriction, including the availability of alter­
natives. 
The first subparagraph shall not apply to the use of a substance as an 
on-site isolated intermediate. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 69 
2. 
For a substance on its own, in a mixture or in an article which 
meets the criteria for classification in the hazard classes carcinogenicity, 
germ cell mutagenicity or reproductive toxicity, category 1A or 1B, and 
could be used by consumers and for which restrictions to consumer use 
are proposed by the Commission, Annex XVII shall be amended in 
accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 133(4). Articles 
69 to 73 shall not apply. 
▼C1 
Article 69 
Preparation of a proposal 
1. 
If the Commission considers that the manufacture, placing on the 
market or use of a substance on its own, in a ►M3 mixture ◄ or in an 
article poses a risk to human health or the environment that is not 
adequately controlled and needs to be addressed, it shall ask the 
Agency to prepare a dossier which conforms to the requirements of 
Annex XV. 
2. 
After the date referred to in Article 58(1)(c)(i) for a substance 
listed in Annex XIV, the Agency shall consider whether the use of 
that substance in articles poses a risk to human health or the environ­
ment that is not adequately controlled. If the Agency considers that the 
risk is not adequately controlled, it shall prepare a dossier which 
conforms to the requirements of Annex XV. 
3. 
Within 12 months of the receipt of the request from the 
Commission in paragraph 1 and if this dossier demonstrates that 
action on a Community-wide basis is necessary, beyond any measures 
already in place, the Agency shall suggest restrictions, in order to 
initiate the restrictions process. 
4. 
If a Member State considers that the manufacture, placing on the 
market or use of a substance on its own, in a ►M3 mixture ◄ or in an 
article poses a risk to human health or the environment that is not 
adequately controlled and needs to be addressed it shall notify the 
Agency that it proposes to prepare a dossier which conforms to the 
requirements of the relevant sections of Annex XV. If the substance 
is not on the list maintained by the Agency referred to in paragraph 5 of 
this Article, the Member State shall prepare a dossier which conforms to 
the requirements of Annex XV within 12 months of the notification to 
the Agency. If this dossier demonstrates that action on a Community- 
wide basis is necessary, beyond any measures already in place, the 
Member State shall submit it to the Agency in the format outlined in 
Annex XV, in order to initiate the restrictions process. 
The Agency or Member States shall refer to any dossier, chemical 
safety report or risk assessment submitted to the Agency or Member 
State under this Regulation. The Agency or Member States shall also 
refer to any relevant risk assessment submitted for the purposes of other 
Community Regulations or Directives. To this end other bodies, such as 
agencies, established under Community law and carrying out a similar 
task shall provide information to the Agency or Member State 
concerned on request. 
▼M3

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 70 
The Committee for Risk Assessment and the Committee for Socio- 
economic Analysis shall check whether the dossier submitted 
conforms to the requirements of Annex XV. Within 30 days of 
receipt, the respective Committee shall inform the Agency or the 
Member State suggesting restrictions, as to whether the dossier 
conforms. If the dossier does not conform, the reasons shall be given 
to the Agency or the Member State in writing within 45 days of receipt. 
The Agency or the Member State shall bring the dossier into conformity 
within 60 days of the date of receipt of the reasons from the 
Committees, otherwise the procedure under this Chapter shall be 
terminated. The Agency shall publish without delay the intention of 
the Commission or of a Member State to instigate a restriction 
procedure for a substance and shall inform those who submitted a regis­
tration for that substance. 
5. 
The Agency shall maintain a list of substances for which a dossier 
conforming to the requirements of Annex XV is planned or underway 
by either the Agency or a Member State for the purposes of a proposed 
restriction. If a substance is on the list, no other such dossier shall be 
prepared. If it is proposed by either a Member State or the Agency that 
an existing restriction listed in Annex XVII should be re-examined a 
decision on whether to do so shall be taken in accordance with the 
procedure referred to in Article 133(2) based on evidence presented 
by the Member State or the Agency. 
6. 
Without prejudice to Articles 118 and 119, the Agency shall make 
publicly available on its website all dossiers conforming with Annex 
XV including the restrictions suggested pursuant to paragraphs 3 and 4 
of this Article without delay, clearly indicating the date of publication. 
The Agency shall invite all interested parties to submit individually or 
jointly within six months of the date of publication: 
(a) comments on dossiers and the suggested restrictions; 
(b) a socio-economic analysis, or information which can contribute to 
one, of the suggested restrictions, examining the advantages and 
drawbacks of the proposed restrictions. It shall conform to the 
requirements in Annex XVI. 
Article 70 
Agency opinion: Committee for Risk Assessment 
Within nine months of the date of publication referred to in 
Article 69(6), the Committee for Risk Assessment shall formulate an 
opinion as to whether the suggested restrictions are appropriate in 
reducing the risk to human health and/or the environment, based on 
its consideration of the relevant parts of the dossier. This opinion 
shall take account of the Member State dossier or of the dossier 
prepared by the Agency at the request of the Commission, and the 
views of interested parties referred to in Article 69(6)(a). 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 71 
Article 71 
Agency opinion: Committee for Socio-economic Analysis 
1. 
Within 12 months of the date of publication referred to in 
Article 69(6), the Committee for Socio-economic Analysis shall 
formulate an opinion on the suggested restrictions, based on its con­
sideration of the relevant parts of the dossier and the socio-economic 
impact. It shall prepare a draft opinion on the suggested restrictions and 
on the related socio-economic impact, taking account of the analyses or 
information according to Article 69(6)(b), if there are any. The Agency 
shall publish the draft opinion on its website without delay. The Agency 
shall invite interested parties to give their comments on the draft 
opinion no later than 60 days from the publication of that draft opinion. 
2. 
The Committee for Socio-economic Analysis shall without delay 
adopt its opinion, taking into account where appropriate further 
comments received by the deadline set. This opinion shall take 
account of the comments and socio-economic analyses of interested 
parties submitted under Article 69(6)(b) and under paragraph 1 of this 
Article. 
3. 
Where the opinion of the Committee for Risk Assessment diverges 
significantly from the restrictions suggested, the Agency may postpone 
the deadline for the opinion of the Committee for Socio-economic 
Analysis by a maximum of 90 days. 
Article 72 
Submission of an opinion to the Commission 
1. 
The Agency shall submit to the Commission without delay the 
opinions of the Committees for Risk Assessment and Socio-economic 
Analysis on restrictions suggested for substances on their own, in 
►M3 mixtures ◄ or in articles. If one or both of the Committees do 
not formulate an opinion by the deadline set in Article 70 and 
Article 71(1) the Agency shall inform the Commission accordingly, 
stating the reasons. 
2. 
Without prejudice to Articles 118 and 119 the Agency shall 
publish the opinions of the two Committees on its website without 
delay. 
3. 
The Agency shall provide the Commission and/or Member State 
on request with all documents and evidence submitted to or considered 
by it. 
Article 73 
Commission decision 
1. 
If the conditions laid down in Article 68 are fulfilled, the 
Commission shall prepare a draft amendment to Annex XVII, within 
three months of receipt of the opinion of the Committee for Socio- 
economic Analysis or by the end of the deadline established under 
Article 71 if that Committee does not form an opinion, whichever is 
the earlier. 
Where the draft amendment diverges from the original proposal or if it 
does not take the opinions from the Agency into account, the 
Commission shall annex a detailed explanation of the reasons for the 
differences. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 72 
2. 
A final decision shall be taken in accordance with the procedure 
referred to in Article 133(4). The Commission shall send the draft 
amendment to the Member States at least 45 days before voting. 
TITLE IX 
FEES AND CHARGES 
Article 74 
Fees and charges 
1. 
The fees that are required according to Article 6(4), Article 7(1) 
and (5), Article 9(2), Article 11(4), Article 17(2), Article 18(2), 
Article 19(3), Article 22(5), Article 62(7) and Article 92(3) shall be 
specified in a Commission Regulation adopted in accordance with the 
procedure referred to in Article 133(3) by 1 June 2008. 
2. 
A fee need not be paid for a registration of a substance in a 
quantity of between 1 and 10 tonnes w