tion are grouped or placed in a ‘cat­
egory’ with other forms, including other nanoforms, of the substance in 
the same registration the obligations above shall apply in the same 
manner. 
The similarities may be based on any of the following: 
(1) a common functional group; 
(2) the common precursors and/or the likelihood of common breakdown 
products via physical and biological processes, which result in struc­
turally similar chemicals; 
(3) a constant pattern in the changing of the potency of the properties 
across the category. 
Structural similarity for UVCB substances shall be established on the 
basis of similarities in the structures of the constituents, together with the 
concentration of these constituents and variability in the concentration of 
these constituents. If it can be demonstrated that the identification of all 
individual constituents is not technically possible or impractical, the 
structural similarity may be demonstrated by other means, to enable a 
quantitative and qualitative comparison of the actual composition 
between substances. 
If the group concept is applied, substances shall be classified and 
labelled on this basis. 
In all cases, results shall fulfil all of the following conditions: 
— be adequate for the purpose of classification and labelling and/or risk 
assessment, 
— have adequate and reliable coverage of the key parameters addressed 
in the corresponding study that shall normally be performed for a 
particular information requirement, 
— cover an exposure duration comparable to or longer than the 
corresponding study that shall normally be performed for a particular 
information requirement if exposure duration is a relevant parameter. 
In all cases, adequate and reliable documentation of the applied method 
shall be provided. Such documentation shall include: 
— a robust study summary for each source study used in the adaptation; 
— an explanation why the properties of the registered substance may be 
predicted from other substances in the group; 
— supporting information to scientifically justify such explanation for 
prediction of properties. 
▼C1 
2. 
TESTING IS TECHNICALLY NOT POSSIBLE 
Testing for a specific endpoint may be omitted, if it is technically not 
possible to conduct the study as a consequence of the properties of the 
substance: e.g. very volatile, highly reactive or unstable substances cannot 
be used, mixing of the substance with water may cause danger of fire or 
explosion or the radio-labelling of the substance required in certain 
studies may not be possible. The guidance given in the test methods 
referred to in Article 13(3), more specifically on the technical limitations 
of a specific method, shall always be respected. 
▼M64

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 209 
3. 
SUBSTANCE-TAILORED EXPOSURE-DRIVEN TESTING 
▼M64 
3.1. 
Testing in accordance with Section 8.7 of Annex VIII and in accordance 
with Annex IX and Annex X may be omitted, based on the exposure 
scenario(s) developed in the Chemical Safety Report. Testing in 
accordance with Section 8.6.1 of Annex VIII may be omitted only for 
registrants producing less than 100 tonnes per year per manufacturer or 
importer, based on the exposure scenario(s) developed in the Chemical 
Safety Report. 
▼M4 
3.2. 
In all cases, adequate justification and documentation shall be provided. 
The justification shall be based on a thorough and rigorous exposure 
assessment in accordance with section 5 of Annex I and shall meet any 
one of the following criteria: 
(a) the manufacturer or importer demonstrates and documents that all of 
the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(i) the results of the exposure assessment covering all relevant 
exposures throughout the life cycle of the substance demonstrate 
the absence of or no significant exposure in all scenarios of the 
manufacture and all identified uses as referred to in Annex VI 
section 3.5; 
▼M64 
(ii) a DNEL or a PNEC can be derived from results of available test 
data for the substance concerned taking full account of the 
increased uncertainty resulting from the omission of the 
information requirement, and that DNEL or PNEC is relevant 
and appropriate both to the information requirement to be 
omitted and for risk assessment purposes. For this purpose and 
without prejudice to column 2 of Sections 8.6 and 8.7 of 
Annexes IX and X, a DNEL derived from a 28-day repeated 
dose toxicity study shall not be considered appropriate to omit 
a 90-day repeated dose toxicity study, and a DNEL derived from 
a screening test for reproductive/developmental toxicity shall not 
be considered appropriate to omit a prenatal developmental 
toxicity study or an extended one-generation reproductive 
toxicity study. 
▼M4 
(iii) the comparison of the derived DNEL or PNEC with the results 
of the exposure assessment shows that exposures are always well 
below the derived DNEL or PNEC; 
(b) where the substance is not incorporated in an article the manufacturer 
or importer demonstrates and documents for all relevant scenarios that 
throughout the life cycle strictly controlled conditions as set out in 
Article 18(4)(a) to (f) apply; 
(c) where the substance is incorporated in an article in which it is perma­
nently embedded in a matrix or otherwise rigorously contained by 
technical means, it is demonstrated and documented that all of the 
following conditions are fulfilled: 
(i) the substance is not released during its life cycle; 
(ii) the likelihood that workers or the general public or the environ­
ment are exposed to the substance under normal or reasonably 
foreseeable conditions of use is negligible; and 
(iii) the substance is handled according to the conditions set out in 
Article 18(4)(a) to (f) during all manufacturing and production 
stages including the waste management of the substance during 
these stages. 
3.3. 
The specific conditions of use must be communicated through the supply 
chain in accordance with Article 31 or 32, as the case may be. 
▼M4

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 210 
ANNEX XII 
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR DOWNSTREAM USERS TO ASSESS 
SUBSTANCES AND PREPARE CHEMICAL SAFETY REPORTS 
▼M51 
INTRODUCTION 
The purpose of this Annex is to set out how downstream users are to assess and 
document that the risks arising from the substance(s) they use are adequately 
controlled during their use for a use not covered by the Safety Data Sheet 
supplied to them and that other users further down the supply chain can 
adequately control the risks. The assessment shall cover the life-cycle of the 
substance, from its receipt by the downstream user, for his own uses and for 
his identified uses further down the supply chain. The assessment shall consider 
the use of the substance on its own, in a mixture or in an article. 
The assessment shall address all nanoforms that are covered by the registration. 
Justifications and conclusions drawn from the assessment shall be relevant to the 
nanoforms, from their receipt by the downstream user, for his own uses and for 
his identified uses further down the supply chain. 
In carrying out the chemical safety assessment and producing the Chemical 
Safety Report, the downstream user shall take account of information received 
from the supplier of the chemical in accordance with Article 31 and 32 of this 
Regulation. 
When nanoforms of the substance are covered by his own use or his identified 
uses down the supply chain, an appropriate metric for the assessment and pres­
entation of the results in steps 1- 6 of the chemical safety assessment under 0.6.1 
and 0.6.2 shall be considered, with the justification included in the chemical 
safety report and summarised in the safety data sheet. A multiple metric presen­
tation is preferable, ensuring availability of mass metric information. 
Where available and appropriate, an assessment carried out under Community 
legislation, (e.g. risk assessments completed under Regulation (EEC) No 793/93) 
shall be taken into account in the chemical safety assessment and be reflected in 
the Chemical Safety Report. Deviations from such assessments shall be justified. 
Assessments carried out under other international and national programmes may 
also be taken into account. 
The process which the downstream user goes through in carrying out the 
chemical safety assessment and in producing his Chemical Safety Report, 
involves three steps: 
▼C1 
STEP 1: DEVELOPMENT OF EXPOSURE SCENARIO(S) 
The downstream user shall develop exposure scenarios for uses not covered in a 
Safety Data Sheet supplied to him in accordance with Section 5 of Annex I. 
STEP 
2: 
IF 
NECESSARY, 
A 
REFINEMENT 
OF 
THE 
HAZARD 
ASSESSMENT BY THE SUPPLIER 
If the downstream user considers the hazard and PBT assessments reported in the 
Safety Data Sheet supplied to him to be appropriate, then no further hazard 
assessment or PBT and vPvB assessment is necessary. In this case he shall 
use the relevant information reported by the supplier for the risk characterisation. 
This shall be stated in the Chemical Safety Report. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 211 
When nanoforms of the substance are covered by his own use or his identified 
uses down the supply chain, the assessment shall cover the hazard, PBT and 
vPvB assessment of nanoforms(s) as used. 
▼C1 
If the downstream user considers the assessments reported in the Safety Data 
Sheet supplied to him to be inappropriate, then he shall carry out the relevant 
assessments in accordance with Sections 1 to 4 of Annex I as appropriate to him. 
▼M51 
In those cases where the downstream user considers that information, in addition 
to that provided by the supplier, is necessary for producing his Chemical Safety 
Report, the downstream user shall gather this information. Where this 
information can only be obtained by testing on vertebrate animals, he shall 
submit a proposal for a testing strategy to the Agency in accordance with 
Artic