 personal protective 
equipment 
8.2.2.1. 
The information on use of personal protective equipment shall be 
consistent with good occupational hygiene practices and in 
conjunction with other control measures, including engineering 
controls, ventilation and isolation. Where appropriate, section 5 
shall be referred to for specific fire/chemical personal protective 
equipment advice. 
8.2.2.2. 
Taking into account Regulation (EU) 2016/425 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ) and referring to the appropriate 
CEN standards, detailed specifications shall be given on which 
equipment will provide adequate and suitable protection, including: 
(a) E y e / f a c e p r o t e c t i o n 
The type of eye/face protection equipment required shall be 
specified based on the hazard of the substance or mixture and 
potential for contact, such as safety glasses, safety goggles, face- 
shield. 
(b) S k i n p r o t e c t i o n 
(i) H a n d p r o t e c t i o n 
The type of gloves to be worn when handling the substance 
or mixture shall be clearly specified based on the hazard of 
the substance or mixture and potential for contact and with 
regard to the amount and duration of dermal exposure, 
including: 
— the type of material and its thickness, 
— the typical or minimum breakthrough times of the glove 
material, 
If necessary, any additional hand protection measures shall be 
indicated. 
▼M58 
( 1 ) Regulation (EU) 2016/425 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 
2016 on personal protective equipment and repealing Council Directive 89/686/EEC 
(OJ L 81, 31.3.2016, p. 51).

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 133 
(ii) O t h e r 
If it is necessary to protect a part of the body other than the 
hands, the type and quality of protection equipment required 
shall be specified, such as gauntlets, boots, bodysuit based on 
the hazards associated with the substance or mixture and the 
potential for contact. 
If necessary, any additional skin protection measures and 
specific hygiene measures shall be indicated. 
(c) R e s p i r a t o r y p r o t e c t i o n 
For gases, vapours, mist or dust, the type of protective equipment 
to be used shall be specified based on the hazard and potential for 
exposure, including air-purifying respirators, specifying the 
proper purifying element (cartridge or canister), the adequate 
particulate filters and the adequate masks, or self-contained 
breathing apparatus. 
(d) T h e r m a l h a z a r d s 
When specifying protective equipment to be worn for materials 
that represent a thermal hazard, special consideration shall be 
given to the construction of the personal protective equipment. 
8.2.3. 
Environmental exposure controls 
The information required by the employer to fulfil his commitments 
under Union environmental protection legislation shall be specified. 
Where a chemical safety report is required, a summary of the risk 
management measures that adequately control exposure of the envi­
ronment to the substance shall be given for the exposure scenarios set 
out in the annex to the safety data sheet. 
9. 
SECTION 9: Physical and chemical properties 
This section of the safety data sheet shall describe the empirical data 
relating to the substance or mixture, if relevant. Article 8(2) of Regu­
lation (EC) No 1272/2008 shall apply. 
To enable proper control measures to be taken, all relevant 
information on the substance or mixture shall be provided. The 
information in this section shall be consistent with the information 
provided in the registration or in the chemical safety report, where 
required, and with the classification of the substance or mixture. 
In the case of a mixture, where information does not apply to the 
mixture as a whole, the entries shall clearly indicate to which 
substance in the mixture the data apply. 
Reported properties shall be clearly identified and reported in the 
appropriate measurement units. The method of determination shall 
be provided, including measurement and reference conditions, if 
relevant for the interpretation of the numerical value. Unless 
specified otherwise, standard conditions of temperature and pressure 
are 20 °C and 101,3 kPa, respectively. 
The properties listed in subsections 9.1 and 9.2 may be presented in a 
form of a list. Within the subsections, the order of listing the prop­
erties may be different if deemed appropriate. 
9.1. 
Information on basic physical and chemical properties 
Each safety data sheet shall include the properties mentioned below. 
If it is stated that a particular property does not apply or if 
information on a particular property is not available, this shall be 
clearly indicated, giving the reasons where possible. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 134 
(a) Physical state 
The physical state (gas, liquid or solid) shall generally be 
indicated at standard conditions of temperature and pressure. 
The definitions of the terms gas, liquid and solid, as provided in 
Section 1.0 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008, shall 
apply. 
(b) Colour 
The colour of the substance or mixture as supplied shall be 
indicated. 
In cases where one safety data sheet is used to cover variants of 
a mixture which may have different colours, the term ‘various’ 
can be used to describe the colour. 
(c) Odour 
A qualitative description of the odour shall be given if it is well- 
known or described in the literature. 
If available, the odour threshold shall be indicated (qualitatively 
or quantitatively). 
(d) Melting point/freezing point 
Does not apply to gases. 
Melting point and freezing point shall be indicated at standard 
pressure. 
In case the melting point is above the measuring range of the 
method, it shall be indicated up to which temperature no melting 
point was observed. 
If decomposition or sublimation occur prior to or during melting, 
it shall be indicated. 
As regards waxes and pastes, the softening point/range may be 
indicated instead of the melting point and freezing point. 
As regards mixtures, if it is technically not possible to determine 
the melting point/freezing point, this shall be indicated. 
(e) Boiling point or initial boiling point and boiling range 
These properties shall be indicated at standard pressure. A 
boiling point at lower pressure might however be indicated, in 
case the boiling point is very high or in case decomposition 
occurs before boiling at standard pressure. 
If the boiling point is above the measuring range of the method, 
the temperature up to which no boiling point was observed shall 
be indicated. 
If decomposition occurs prior to or during boiling, this shall be 
indicated. 
As regards mixtures, if it is technically not possible to determine 
their boiling point or range, this shall be indicated; in that case, 
the boiling point of the lowest boiling ingredient shall also be 
indicated. 
(f) Flammability 
Applies to gases, liquids and solids. 
It shall be indicated whether the substance or mixture is 
ignitable, i.e. capable of catching fire or being set on fire, 
even if not classified for flammability. 
If available and appropriate, further information may be indi­
cated, such as whether the effect of ignition is other than a 
normal combustion (e.g. an explosion) and the ignitability 
under non-standard conditions. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 135 
More specific information on the flammability may be indicated 
based on the respective hazard classification. The information 
provided in subsection 9.2.1 shall not be provided in this point. 
(g) Lower and upper explosion limit ( 1 ) 
Do not apply to solids. 
As regards flammable liquids, at least the lower explosion limit 
shall be indicated. If the flash point is approximately – 25 °C or 
higher, it may not be possible to determine the upper explosion 
limit at standard temperature; in that case, it is recommended to 
indicate the upper explosion limit at a higher temperature. If the 
flash point is higher than 20 °C, it may not be possible to 
determine the lower or the upper explosion limit at standard 
temperature; in that case, it is recommended to indicate both 
the lower and the upper explosion limits at a higher temperature. 
(h) Flash point 
Does not apply to gases, aerosols and solids. 
For mixtures, a value for the mixture shall be indicated, if 
available. Otherwise, the flash point(s) of the substance(s) with 
the lowest flash point(s) shall be indicated. 
(i) 
Auto-ignition temperature 
Only applies to gases and liquids. 
As regards mixtures the auto-ignition temperature for the mixture 
shall be indicated, if available. If the value for the mixture is not 
available, the auto-ignition temperature(s) of the ingredients with 
the lowest auto-ignition temperature(s) shall be indicated. 
(j) 
Decomposition temperature 
Only applies to self-reactive substances and mixtures, organic 
peroxides, and other substances and mixtures that may 
decompose. 
The self-accelerating decomposition temperature (SADT) and the 
volume to which it applies, or the decomposition onset 
temperature shall be indicated. 
It shall be indicated whether the temperature given is the SADT 
or the decomposition onset temperature. 
If no decomposition was observed, it shall be indicated up to 
which temperature no decomposition was observed, e.g. ‘no 
decomposition observed up to x °C’. 
(k) pH 
Does not apply to gases. 
The pH of the substance or mixture as supplied, or where the 
product is a solid, the pH of an aqueous liquid or solution at a 
given concentration, shall be indicated. 
The concentration of the test substance or mixture in water shall 
be indicated. 
(l) 
Kinematic viscosity 
Only applies to liquids. 
The measurement unit shall be mm 2 /s. 
▼M58 
( 1 ) Note: The term ‘explosion limit’ is synonymous to ‘flammability limit’, used outside the 
Union.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 136 
For non-Newtonian liquids, the thixotropic or rheopexic