istration dossier. 
▼M51 
Without prejudice to the information submitted for other forms, any relevant 
physicochemical, toxicological and ecotoxicological information shall include 
characterisation of the nanoform tested and test conditions. A justification shall 
be provided where QSARs are used or evidence is obtained by means other than 
testing, as well as a description of the range of the characteristics/properties of 
the nanoforms to which the evidence can be applied. 
▼C1 
In addition to these specific rules, a registrant may propose to adapt the required 
standard information set out in column 1 of this Annex according to the general 
rules contained in Annex XI. In this case as well, he shall clearly state the 
reasons for any decision to propose adaptations to the standard information 
under the appropriate headings in the registration dossier referring to the appro­
priate specific rule(s) in column 2 or in Annex XI ( 2 ). 
Before new tests are carried out to determine the properties listed in this Annex, 
all available in vitro data, in vivo data, historical human data, data from valid 
(Q)SARs and data from structurally related substances (read-across approach) 
shall be assessed first. In vivo testing with corrosive substances at concen­
tration/dose levels causing corrosivity shall be avoided. Prior to testing, further 
guidance on testing strategies should be consulted in addition to this Annex. 
▼M64 
Where a test method offers flexibility in the study design, for example in relation 
to the choice of dose levels, the chosen study design shall ensure that the data 
generated are adequate for hazard identification and risk assessment. To this end, 
testing shall be performed at appropriately high dose levels. If dose (concen­
tration) selection is limited by the physicochemical properties or biological 
effects of the test substance, justification shall be provided. 
▼C1 
( 1 ) This Annex shall apply to producers of articles that are required to register in accordance 
with Article 7 and to other downstream users that are required to carry out tests under 
this Regulation adapted as necessary. 
( 2 ) Note: conditions for not requiring a specific test that are set out in the appropriate test 
methods in the Commission Regulation on test methods as specified in Article 13(3) that 
are not repeated in column 2, also apply.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 187 
When, for certain endpoints, it is proposed not to provide information for other 
reasons than those mentioned in column 2 of this Annex or in Annex XI, this 
fact and the reasons shall also be clearly stated. 
7. INFORMATION ON THE PHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF THE 
SUBSTANCE 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION 
REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
7.15. Stability 
in 
organic 
solvents and identity of 
relevant 
degradation 
products 
Only required if stability 
of 
the 
substance 
is 
considered to be critical. 
7.15. The study does not need to be conducted if the substance 
is inorganic. 
7.16. Dissociation constant 
7.16. The study does not need to be conducted if: 
— the substance is hydrolytically unstable (half-life less 
than 12 hours) or is readily oxidisable in water, or 
►M70 __________ ◄ 
►M64 — or based on the structure, the substance does 
not have any chemical group that can 
dissociate. ◄ 
7.17. Viscosity 
►M64 For hydrocarbon substances the kinematic viscosity 
shall be determined at 40 °C. ◄ 
8. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
▼M70 
8.4. 
Mutagenicity 
8.4. 
The studies referred to in points 8.4.4 and 8.4.5 do not 
need to be conducted in any of the following cases: 
— the substance is known to cause germ cell muta­
genicity, meeting the criteria for classification in 
the hazard class germ cell mutagenicity category 
1A or 1B, and appropriate risk management 
measures are implemented, 
— the substance is known to be a genotoxic carci­
nogen, meeting the criteria for classification both 
in the hazard class germ cell mutagenicity 
category 1A, 1B or 2 and in the hazard class 
carcinogenicity category 1A or 1B, and appro­
priate risk management measures are implemented. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 188 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
8.4.4. An appropriate in vivo mammalian somatic cell 
genotoxicity study, if there is a positive result in 
any of the in vitro genotoxicity studies referred 
to in Annex VII or Annex VIII, which gives rise 
to concern. The in vivo mammalian somatic cell 
genotoxicity study shall address the chro­
mosomal 
aberration 
concern 
or 
the 
gene 
mutation concern or both, as appropriate. 
8.4.4. The in vivo mammalian somatic cell genotoxicity 
study does not need to be conducted if there are 
adequate results available from an appropriate in 
vivo mammalian somatic cell genotoxicity study. 
8.4.5. An appropriate in vivo mammalian germ cell 
genotoxicity study, if there is a positive result 
in an available in vivo mammalian somatic cell 
genotoxicity study, which gives rise to concern. 
The in vivo mammalian germ cell genotoxicity 
study shall address the chromosomal aberration 
concern or the gene mutation concern or both, as 
appropriate. 
8.4.5. The study does not need to be conducted if there is 
clear evidence that neither the substance nor its meta­
bolites reach the germ cells. 
▼C1 
8.6. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
▼M64 
__________ 
▼M51 
8.6.2. Sub-chronic toxicity study (90-day), one species, 
rodent, male and female, most appropriate route 
of administration, having regard to the likely 
route of human exposure. 
►M64 8.6.2. The sub-chronic toxicity study (90 days) 
does not need to be conducted if: 
— a reliable short-term toxicity study (28 
days) 
is 
available 
showing 
severe 
toxicity effects meeting the criteria for 
classifying the substance as STOT RE 
(category 1 or 2), for which the 
observed NOAEL-28 days, with the 
application of an appropriate uncertainty 
factor, allows the extrapolation towards 
the NOAEL-90 days for the same route 
of exposure, or 
— a reliable chronic toxicity study is 
available or proposed by the registrant, 
provided that an appropriate species and 
route of administration are used, or; ◄ 
— a substance undergoes immediate disinte­
gration and there are sufficient data on 
the cleavage products (both for systemic 
effects and effects at the site of uptake), 
or 
▼M70

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 189 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
— the substance is unreactive, insoluble and 
not inhalable and there is no evidence of 
absorption and no evidence of toxicity in 
a 28-day ‘limit test’, particularly if such a 
pattern is coupled with limited human 
exposure. 
The appropriate route shall be chosen on the 
following basis: 
Testing by the dermal route is appropriate if: 
(1) skin contact in production and/or use is 
likely; and 
(2) the physicochemical properties suggest a 
significant rate of absorption through the 
skin; and 
(3) one of the following conditions is met: 
— toxicity is observed in the acute 
dermal toxicity test at lower doses 
than in the oral toxicity test, or 
— systemic effects or other evidence of 
absorption is observed in skin and/or 
eye irritation studies, or 
— in vitro tests indicate significant 
dermal absorption, or 
— significant dermal toxicity or dermal 
penetration is recognised for structu- 
rally-related substances. 
Testing by the inhalation route is appropriate 
if: 
— exposure of humans via inhalation is 
likely taking into account the vapour 
pressure of the substance and/or the 
possibility of exposure to aerosols, parti- 
cles or droplets of an inhalable size. 
►M64 For nanoforms without high dissolu- 
tion rate in biological media, the study shall 
include toxicokinetic investigations on, 
among others, the recovery period and, where 
relevant, lung clearance. Toxicokinetic inves- 
tigations do not need to be performed if 
equivalent toxicokinetic information on the 
nanoform is already available. ◄ 
▼M51

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 190 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
Further studies shall be proposed by the 
registrant or may be required by the Agency 
in accordance with Articles 40 or 41 in case 
of: 
— failure to identify a NOAEL in the 90 
days study unless the reason for the 
failure to identify a NOAEL is absence 
of adverse toxic effects, or 
— toxicity of particular concern (e.g. ser- 
ious/severe effects), or 
— indications of an effect for which the 
available evidence is inadequate for 
toxicological and/or risk characterisation. 
In such cases it may also be more 
appropriate to perform specific toxicolo- 
gical studies that are designed to investi- 
gate these effects (e.g. immunotoxicity, 
neurotoxicity, and in particular for nano- 
forms indirect genotoxicity), or 
— particular concern regarding exposure 
(e.g. use in consumer products leading 
to exposure levels which are close to the 
dose levels at which toxicity to humans 
may be expected). 
▼C1 
8.7. 
Reproductive toxicity 
►M64 8.7. The studies do not need to be conducted if: 
— the substance is known to be a genotoxic 
carcinogen, meeting the criteria for classifi­
cation both in the hazard class germ cell 
mutagenicity (category 1A or 1B or 2) and 
carcinogenicity (category 1A or 1B), and 
appropriate risk management measures are 
implemented, or 
— the substance is known to be a germ cell 
mutagen, meeting the criteria for classifi­
cation in the hazard class germ cell mutage­
nicity (category 1A or 1B) and appropriate 
risk management measures are implemented, 
or 
— the substance is of low toxicological activity 
(a comprehensive and informative dataset 
showing no toxicity