ubstance or mixture such as: 
(a) the wearing of suitable protective equipment (including personal 
protective equipment referred to under section 8 of the safety data 
sheet) to prevent any contamination of skin, eyes and personal 
clothing; 
(b) removal of ignition sources, provision of sufficient ventilation, 
control of dust; and 
(c) emergency procedures such as the need to evacuate the danger 
area or to consult an expert. 
6.1.2. 
For emergency responders 
Advice shall be provided related to suitable fabric for personal 
protective clothing (such as ‘appropriate: butylene’; ‘not appropriate: 
PVC’). 
6.2. 
Environmental precautions 
Advice shall be provided on any environmental precautions to be 
taken related to accidental spills and release of the substance or 
mixture, such as keeping away from drains, surface and ground water. 
6.3. 
Methods and material for containment and cleaning up 
6.3.1. 
Appropriate advice shall be provided on how to contain a spill. 
Appropriate containment techniques may include any of the 
following: 
(a) bunding, covering of drains; 
(b) capping procedures. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 129 
6.3.2. 
Appropriate advice shall be provided on how to clean-up a spill. 
Appropriate clean-up procedures may include any of the following: 
(a) neutralisation techniques; 
(b) decontamination techniques; 
(c) adsorbent materials; 
(d) cleaning techniques; 
(e) vacuuming techniques; 
(f) equipment required for containment/clean-up (include the use of 
non-sparking tools and equipment where applicable). 
6.3.3. 
Any other information shall be provided relating to spills and 
releases, including advice on inappropriate containment or clean-up 
techniques, such as by indications like ‘never use …’. 
6.4. 
Reference to other sections 
If appropriate sections 8 and 13 shall be referred to. 
7. 
SECTION 7: Handling and storage 
This section of the safety data sheet shall provide advice on safe 
handling practices. It shall emphasise precautions that are appropriate 
to the identified uses referred to under subsection 1.2 and to the 
unique properties of the substance or mixture. 
Information in this section of the safety data sheet shall relate to the 
protection of human health, safety and the environment. It shall assist 
the employer in devising suitable working procedures and organisa­
tional measures according to Article 5 of Directive 98/24/EC and 
Article 5 of Directive 2004/37/EC. 
Where a chemical safety report is required, the information in this 
section of the safety data sheet shall be consistent with the 
information given for the identified uses in the chemical safety 
report and the exposure scenarios showing control of risk from the 
chemical safety report set out in the annex to the safety data sheet. 
In addition to information given in this section, relevant information 
may also be found in section 8. 
7.1. 
Precautions for safe handling 
7.1.1. 
Recommendations shall be specified to: 
(a) allow safe handling of the substance or mixture, such as 
containment and measures to prevent fire as well as aerosol 
and dust generation; 
(b) prevent handling of incompatible substances or mixtures; 
(c) draw attention to operations and conditions which create new 
risks by altering the properties of the substance or mixture, and 
to appropriate countermeasures; and 
(d) reduce the release of the substance or mixture to the environment, 
such as avoiding spills or keeping away from drains. 
7.1.2. 
Advice on general occupational hygiene shall be provided, such as: 
(a) not to eat, drink and smoke in work areas; 
(b) to wash hands after use; and 
(c) to remove contaminated clothing and protective equipment before 
entering eating areas. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 130 
7.2. 
Conditions for safe storage, including any incompatibilities 
The advice provided shall be consistent with the physical and 
chemical properties described in section 9 of the safety data sheet. 
If relevant, advice shall be provided on specific storage requirements 
including: 
(a) how to manage risks associated with: 
(i) explosive atmospheres; 
(ii) corrosive conditions; 
(iii) flammability hazards; 
(iv) incompatible substances or mixtures; 
(v) evaporative conditions; and 
(vi) potential ignition sources (including electrical equipment); 
(b) how to control the effects of: 
(i) weather conditions; 
(ii) ambient pressure; 
(iii) temperature; 
(iv) sunlight; 
(v) humidity; and 
(vi) vibration; 
(c) how to maintain the integrity of the substance or mixture by the 
use of: 
(i) stabilisers; and 
(ii) antioxidants; 
(d) other advice including: 
(i) ventilation requirements; 
(ii) specific designs for storage rooms or vessels (including 
retention walls and ventilation); 
(iii) quantity limits under storage conditions (if relevant); and 
(iv) packaging compatibilities. 
7.3. 
Specific end use(s) 
For substances and mixtures designed for specific end use(s), recom­
mendations shall relate to the identified use(s) referred to in 
subsection 1.2 and be detailed and operational. If an exposure 
scenario is attached, reference to it may be made or the information 
as required in subsections 7.1 and 7.2 shall be provided. If an actor in 
the supply chain has carried out a chemical safety assessment for the 
mixture, it is sufficient that the safety data sheet and the exposure 
scenarios are consistent with the chemical safety report for the 
mixture, rather than with the chemical safety reports for each 
substance in the mixture. If industry or sector specific guidance is 
available, detailed reference to it (including source and issuing date) 
may be made. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 131 
8. 
SECTION 8: Exposure controls/personal protection 
This section of the safety data sheet shall describe the applicable 
occupational exposure limits and necessary risk management 
measures. 
Where a chemical safety report is required, the information in this 
section of the safety data sheet shall be consistent with the 
information given for the identified uses in the chemical safety 
report and the exposure scenarios showing control of risk from the 
chemical safety report set out in the annex to the safety data sheet. 
8.1. 
Control parameters 
8.1.1. 
Where available, the following national limit values, including the 
legal basis of each of them, which are currently applicable in the 
Member State in which the safety data sheet is being provided 
shall be listed for the substance or for each of the substances in 
the mixture. When listing occupational exposure limit values, the 
chemical identity as specified in section 3 shall be used. 
8.1.1.1. 
the national occupational exposure limit values that correspond to 
Union occupational exposure limit values in accordance with 
Directive 98/24/EC, including any notations as referred to in 
Article 2(3) of Commission Decision 2014/113/EU ( 1 ); 
8.1.1.2. 
the national occupational exposure limit values that correspond to 
Union limit values in accordance with Directive 2004/37/EC, 
including any notations as referred to in Article 2(3) of Decision 
2014/113/EU; 
8.1.1.3. 
any other national occupational exposure limit values; 
8.1.1.4. 
the national biological limit values that correspond to Union 
biological limit values in accordance with Directive 98/24/EC, 
including any notations as referred to in Article 2(3) of Decision 
2014/113/EU; 
8.1.1.5. 
any other national biological limit values. 
8.1.2. 
Information on currently recommended monitoring procedures shall 
be provided at least for the most relevant substances. 
8.1.3. 
If air contaminants are formed when using the substance or mixture 
as intended, applicable occupational exposure limit values and/or 
biological limit values for these shall also be listed. 
8.1.4. 
Where a chemical safety report is required or where a DNEL as 
referred to in Section 1.4 of Annex I or a PNEC as referred to in 
Section 3.3 of Annex I is available, the relevant DNELs and PNECs 
for the substance shall be given for the exposure scenarios from the 
chemical safety report set out in the annex to the safety data sheet. 
8.1.5. 
Where a control banding approach is used to decide on risk 
management measures in relation to specific uses, sufficient detail 
shall be given to enable effective management of the risk. The 
context and limitations of the specific control banding recommen­
dation shall be made clear. 
▼M58 
( 1 ) Commission Decision 2014/113/EU of 3 March 2014 on setting up a Scientific 
Committee on Occupational Exposure Limits for Chemical Agents and repealing 
Decision 95/320/EC (OJ L 62, 4.3.2014, p. 18).

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 132 
8.2. 
Exposure controls 
The information required in this subsection shall be provided, unless 
an exposure scenario containing that information is attached to the 
safety data sheet. 
Where the supplier has waived a test under Section 3 of Annex XI, 
he shall indicate the specific conditions of use relied on to justify the 
waiving. 
Where a substance has been registered as an isolated intermediate 
(on-site or transported), the supplier shall indicate that this safety 
data sheet is consistent with the specific conditions relied on to 
justify the registration in accordance with Article 17 or 18. 
8.2.1. 
Appropriate engineering controls 
The description of appropriate exposure control measures shall relate 
to the identified use(s) of the substance or mixture as referred to in 
subsection 1.2. This information shall be sufficient to enable the 
employer to carry out an assessment of risk to the safety and 
health of workers arising from the presence of the substance or 
mixture in accordance with Articles 4 to 6 of Directive 98/24/EC 
and Articles 3 to 5 of Directive 2004/37/EC, where appropriate. 
This information shall complement that already given under section 7. 
8.2.2. 
Individual protection measures, such as