 
appropriate methods of waste treatment of both the substance 
or mixture and any contaminated packaging (for example, incin­
eration, recycling, landfilling); 
▼M58 
( 1 ) Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 
2008 on waste and repealing certain Directives (OJ L 312, 22.11.2008, p. 3).

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 147 
(b) specify the physical/chemical properties that may affect waste 
treatment options; 
(c) discourage sewage disposal; 
(d) identify, where appropriate, any special precautions for any 
recommended waste treatment option. 
Any relevant Union provisions relating to waste or, in their absence, 
any relevant national or regional provisions in force shall be referred 
to. 
14. 
SECTION 14: Transport information 
This section of the safety data sheet shall provide basic classification 
information for the transport/shipment of substances or mixtures 
mentioned in section 1 by road, rail, sea, inland waterways or air. 
Where such information is not available or relevant this shall be 
stated. 
Where relevant, this section shall provide information on the transport 
classification for each of the following international agreements which 
are transposing the UN Model Regulations for specific transport 
modes: the Agreement concerning the International Carriage of 
Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR), the Regulations concerning the 
International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Rail (RID) and the 
European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of 
Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways (ADN), all three of which 
have been implemented by Directive 2008/68/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ), as well as the International 
Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Code ( 2 ) for the transport of 
packaged goods and the relevant IMO codes for the transport of 
bulk cargo by sea ( 3 ) and the Technical Instructions for the Safe 
Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air (ICAO TI) ( 4 ). 
14.1. 
UN number or ID number 
The UN number or the ID number (i.e. the four-figure identification 
number of the substance, mixture or article preceded by the letters 
‘UN’ or ‘ID’) from the UN Model Regulations, IMDG, ADR, RID, 
ADN or ICAO TI shall be provided. 
14.2. 
UN proper shipping name 
The proper shipping name as provided in column 2, ‘Name and 
description’, of Table A of Chapter 3.2 Dangerous Goods List of 
the UN Model Regulations, in ADR, in RID and in Tables A and 
C of Chapter 3.2 of ADN, supplemented, when applicable, with the 
technical name in brackets as required, shall be provided, unless it 
was used as the product identifier in subsection 1.1. If the UN 
▼M58 
( 1 ) Directive 2008/68/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 
2008 on the inland transport of dangerous goods (OJ L 260, 30.9.2008, p. 13). 
( 2 ) Compliance with the IMDG Code is mandatory for the carriage of packaged dangerous 
goods by sea as provided for in Chapter VII/Reg. 3 of SOLAS and MARPOL Annex III 
Prevention of Pollution by Harmful Substances Carried by Sea in Packaged Form. 
( 3 ) The IMO has developed various legal instruments related to dangerous and polluting 
goods differentiating between how the goods are carried (packaged and bulk) and by 
type of cargo (solid, liquid and liquefied gases). Rules on the carriage of dangerous 
cargoes and the ships that carry these cargoes are found in the International Convention 
for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS, 1974), as amended, and the International 
Convention on Maritime Pollution (MARPOL 73/78), as amended. These conventions 
are supplemented by the following codes: IMDG, IMSBC, IBC and IGC. 
( 4 ) IATA, 2007-2008 edition.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 148 
number and the proper shipping name remain unchanged in different 
transport modes, it is not necessary to repeat this information. As 
regards maritime transport, in addition to the UN proper shipping 
name, the technical name for goods to be transported covered by 
the IMDG Code shall be indicated, where appropriate. 
14.3. 
Transport hazard class(es) 
The transport hazard class (and subsidiary risks) assigned to the 
substances or mixtures on the basis of the predominant hazard that 
they present according to the UN Model Regulations shall be 
provided. As regards inland transport, the transport hazard class 
(and subsidiary risks) assigned to the substances or mixtures on the 
basis of the predominant hazard that they present according to ADR, 
RID and ADN shall be provided. 
14.4. 
Packing group 
The packing group number from the UN Model Regulations shall be 
provided, if applicable, as required by the UN Model Regulations, 
ADR, RID and ADN. The packing group number is assigned to 
certain substances in accordance with their degree of hazard. 
14.5. 
Environmental hazards 
It shall be indicated whether the substance or mixture is environ­
mentally hazardous according to the criteria of the UN Model Regu­
lations (as reflected in ADR, RID and ADN), and whether it is a 
marine pollutant according to the IMDG Code and the Emergency 
Response Procedures for Ships Carrying Dangerous Goods. If the 
substance or mixture is authorised or intended for carriage by 
inland waterways in tank-vessels, it shall be indicated whether the 
substance or mixture is environmentally hazardous in tank-vessels 
only according to ADN. 
14.6. 
Special precautions for user 
Information shall be provided on any special precautions, which a 
user should or must take or be aware of in connection with transport 
or conveyance either within or outside his premises, for all relevant 
modes of transport. 
14.7. 
Maritime transport in bulk according to IMO instruments 
This subsection only applies when cargoes are intended to be carried 
in bulk according to IMO instruments: Chapter VI or Chapter VII of 
SOLAS ( 1 ), Annex II or Annex V of MARPOL, the IBC Code ( 2 ), the 
IMSBC Code ( 3 ), and the IGC Code ( 4 ) or its earlier versions, namely 
EGC Code ( 5 ) or GC Code ( 6 ). 
▼M58 
( 1 ) SOLAS means the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, as 
amended. 
( 2 ) IBC Code means the International Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships 
carrying dangerous Chemicals in Bulk, as amended. 
( 3 ) IMSBC Code means the International Maritime Solid Bulk Cargoes Code, as amended. 
( 4 ) IGC Code means the International Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships 
Carrying Liquefied Gases in Bulk, including applicable amendments in accordance with 
which the vessel has been certified. 
( 5 ) EGC Code means the Code for Existing Ships Carrying Liquefied Gases in Bulk, as 
amended. 
( 6 ) GC Code means the Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying 
Liquefied Gases in Bulk (Gas Carrier Code), as amended.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 149 
As regards liquid bulk cargoes, the product name shall be provided (if 
different from that given in subsection 1.1) as required by the 
shipment document and in accordance with the name used in the 
lists of product names given in chapters 17 or 18 of the IBC Code 
or the latest edition of the IMO’s Maritime Environment Protection 
Committee (MEPC).2/Circular ( 1 ). Ship type required and pollution 
category shall be indicated, as well as the IMO hazard class, in 
accordance with Annex I (3) B (a) of Directive 2002/59/EC of the 
European Parliament and of the Council ( 2 ). 
As regards solid bulk cargoes, the bulk cargo shipping name shall be 
provided. It shall be indicated whether or not the cargo is considered 
harmful to the marine environment (HME) according to Annex V of 
MARPOL, whether it is a material hazardous only in bulk (MHB) ( 3 ) 
according to the IMSBC Code, and as which cargo group it should be 
considered according to the IMSBC. 
As regards liquefied gas cargoes in bulk, the product name and the 
ship type required according to the IGC Code or its earlier versions, 
namely EGC Code or GC Code shall be provided. 
15. 
SECTION 15: Regulatory information 
This section of the safety data sheet shall describe the other regu­
latory information on the substance or mixture that is not already 
provided in the safety data sheet (such as whether the substance or 
mixture is subject to Regulation (EC) No 1005/2009 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on substances 
that deplete the ozone layer ( 4 ), Regulation (EC) No 850/2004 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on 
persistent organic pollutants and amending Directive 79/117/EEC ( 5 ) 
or Regulation (EC) No 649/2012 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 4 July 2012 concerning the export and import of 
dangerous chemicals ( 6 )). 
15.1. 
Safety, health and environmental regulations/legislation specific 
for the substance or mixture 
Information shall be provided regarding relevant Union safety, health 
and environmental provisions (for example, Seveso category/named 
substances in Annex I to Council Directive 96/82/EC ( 7 )) or regarding 
the national regulatory status of the substance or mixture (including 
the substances in the mixture), including advice on action that should 
be taken by the recipient as a result of these provisions. Where 
relevant the national laws of the relevant Member States which 
implement these provisions and any other national measures that 
may be relevant shall be mentioned. 
If the substance or mixture covered by this safety data sheet is the 
subject of specific provisions in relation to the protection of human 
health or the environment at Union level (such as authorisations given 
under Title VII or restrictions under Title VIII) these provisions shall 
be mentioned. Where an authorisation granted under Title VII 
imposes conditions or monitoring arrangements to a downstream 
user of the substance or mixture, they shall be provided. 
▼M58 
( 1 ) MEPC.2/Circular, Provisional categorisation of liquid