hose in vitro genotoxicity studies, the 
registrant shall propose, or the Agency may 
require, an appropriate in vivo study referred 
to in Annex IX, point 8.4.4. The in vivo 
study shall address the chromosomal aber­
ration concern or the gene mutation concern 
or both, as appropriate. 
The in vitro gene mutation study in bacteria 
does not need to be conducted if this test is 
not applicable for the substance. In this case, 
the registrant shall provide a justification and 
perform an in vitro study referred to in 
Annex VIII, point 8.4.3. In case of a 
positive result in that study the registrant 
shall perform an in vitro cytogenicity study 
referred to in Annex VIII, point 8.4.2. Based 
on the positive result in any of those in vitro 
genotoxicity studies, or in case one of the 
Annex VIII in vitro tests is not applicable 
for the substance, 
the 
registrant shall 
propose, or the Agency may require, an 
appropriate in vivo study referred to in 
Annex IX, point 8.4.4. The in vivo study 
shall address the chromosomal aberration 
concern or the gene mutation concern or 
both, as appropriate. 
The in vitro gene mutation study in bacteria 
referred to in point 8.4.1 and follow-up 
testing do not need to be conducted in any 
of the following cases: 
— the substance is known to cause germ cell 
mutagenicity, meeting the criteria for 
classification in the hazard class germ 
cell mutagenicity category 1A or 1B, 
and 
appropriate 
risk 
management 
measures are implemented, 
— the substance is known to be a genotoxic 
carcinogen, meeting the criteria for clas­
sification both in the hazard class germ 
cell mutagenicity category 1A, 1B or 2 
and in the hazard class carcinogenicity 
category 1A or 1B, and appropriate risk 
management 
measures 
are 
implemented. ◄ 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 173 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION 
REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
▼M51 
8.4.1. In vitro gene mutation study 
in bacteria 
►M70 8.4.1. The in vitro gene mutation study in bacteria 
does not need to be conducted for nanoforms 
where it is not appropriate. In such case, an 
in vitro study referred to in Annex VIII, 
point 8.4.3, shall be provided. ◄ 
▼C1 
8.5. 
Acute toxicity 
8.5. 
The study/ies do(es) not generally need to be 
conducted if: 
— the substance is classified as corrosive to the skin. 
▼M51 
8.5.1. By oral route 
8.5.1. The study need not be conducted if 
a study on acute toxicity by the inhalation route 
(8.5.2) is available. 
For nanoforms, a study by the oral route shall be 
replaced by a study by the inhalation route (8.5.2), 
unless exposure of humans via inhalation is unlikely, 
taking into account the possibility of exposure to 
aerosols, particles or droplets of an inhalable size. 
▼C1 
9. ECOTOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION 
REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
9.1. 
Aquatic toxicity 
▼M51 
9.1.1. 
Short-term toxicity testing 
on invertebrates (preferred 
species Daphnia) 
►M70 __________ ◄ 
►M70 9.1.1. The study does not need to be conducted in 
any of the following cases: 
— there are factors indicating that short-term 
aquatic toxicity is unlikely to occur, for 
instance if the substance is highly 
insoluble in water or the substance is 
unlikely to cross biological membranes, 
— a long-term aquatic toxicity study on 
invertebrates is available. 
For nanoforms, the study may not be waived 
on the basis of high insolubility in water 
alone. 
The 
registrant 
may 
propose 
long-term 
toxicity testing instead of short-term toxicity 
testing. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 174 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION 
REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
Long-term toxicity testing on invertebrates 
(preferred species Daphnia), (Annex IX, point 
9.1.5) shall be proposed by the registrant or 
may be required by the Agency when it is 
unlikely that short-term toxicity testing can 
provide a true measure of the intrinsic aquatic 
toxicity of the substance, for instance: 
— if the substance is poorly water soluble 
(solubility below 1 mg/L), or 
— for nanoforms with low dissolution rate in 
the relevant test media. ◄ 
9.1.2. 
Growth 
inhibition 
study 
aquatic 
plants 
(algae 
preferred) 
►M70 9.1.2. The study does not need to be conducted if 
there are factors indicating that aquatic 
toxicity is unlikely to occur for instance if 
the substance is highly insoluble in water 
or the substance is unlikely to cross 
biological membranes. 
For nanoforms, the study may not be waived 
on the basis of high insolubility in water 
alone. ◄ 
▼C1 
9.2. 
Degradation 
9.2.1. 
Biotic 
9.2.1.1. Ready biodegradability 
9.2.1.1. The study does not need to be conducted if the 
substance is inorganic. 
Any other relevant physicochemical, toxicological and ecotoxicological 
information that is available shall be provided. 
▼M51

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 175 
ANNEX VIII 
STANDARD INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBSTANCES 
MANUFACTURED OR IMPORTED IN QUANTITIES OF 10 TONNES 
OR MORE ( 1 ) 
Column 1 of this Annex establishes the standard information required for all 
substances manufactured or imported in quantities of 10 tonnes or more in 
accordance with Article 12(1)(c). Accordingly, the information required in 
column 1 of this Annex is additional to that required in column 1 of Annex 
VII. Any other relevant physicochemical, toxicological and ecotoxicological 
information that is available shall be provided. Column 2 of this Annex lists 
specific rules according to which the required standard information may be 
omitted, replaced by other information, provided at a different stage or adapted 
in another way. If the conditions are met under which column 2 of this Annex 
allows adaptations, the registrant shall clearly state this fact and the reasons for 
each adaptation under the appropriate headings in the registration dossier. 
▼M51 
Without prejudice to the information submitted for other forms, any relevant 
physicochemical, toxicological and ecotoxicological information shall include 
characterisation of the nanoform tested and test conditions. A justification shall 
be provided where QSARs are used or evidence is obtained by means other than 
testing, as well as a description of the range of the characteristics/properties of 
the nanoforms to which the evidence can be applied. 
▼C1 
In addition to these specific rules, a registrant may adapt the required standard 
information set out in column 1 of this Annex according to the general rules 
contained in Annex XI. In this case as well, he shall clearly state the reasons for 
any decision to adapt the standard information under the appropriate headings in 
the registration dossier referring to the appropriate specific rule(s) in column 2 or 
in Annex XI ( 2 ). 
Before new tests are carried out to determine the properties listed in this Annex, 
all available in vitro data, in vivo data, historical human data, data from valid 
(Q)SARs and data from structurally related substances (read-across approach) 
shall be assessed first. In vivo testing with corrosive substances at concen­
tration/dose levels causing corrosivity shall be avoided. Prior to testing, further 
guidance on testing strategies should be consulted in addition to this Annex. 
▼M64 
Where a test method offers flexibility in the study design, for example in relation 
to the choice of dose levels, the chosen study design shall ensure that the data 
generated are adequate for hazard identification and risk assessment. To this end, 
testing shall be performed at appropriately high dose levels. If dose (concen­
tration) selection is limited by the physicochemical properties or biological 
effects of the test substance, justification shall be provided. 
▼C1 
When, for certain endpoints, information is not provided for other reasons than 
those mentioned in column 2 of this Annex or in Annex XI, this fact and the reasons 
shall also be clearly stated. 
▼C1 
( 1 ) This Annex shall apply to producers of articles that are required to register in accordance 
with Article 7 and to other downstream users that are required to carry out tests under 
this Regulation adapted as necessary. 
( 2 ) Note: conditions for not requiring a specific test that are set out in the appropriate test 
methods in the Commission Regulation on test methods as specified in Article 13(3) that 
are not repeated in column 2, also apply.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 176 
7. INFORMATION ON THE PHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF THE 
SUBSTANCE 
7.14ter. Further 
information 
on 
physicochemical properties 
Only for nanoforms 
Further testing for nanoforms covered by the registration 
shall be considered by the registrant or may be required 
by the Agency in accordance with Article 41, if there is 
an indication that specific additional particle properties 
significantly influence the hazard of or the exposure to 
those nanoforms. 
▼C1 
8. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION 
REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
▼M36 
8.1. 
Skin corrosion/irritation 
►M64 8.1. An in vivo study for skin corrosion/irritation 
shall be conducted only if the in vitro study/ 
studies under points 8.1.1 and/or 8.1.2 of 
Annex VII is(are) not applicable, or the 
results of this/these study/studies is/are not 
adequate 
for 
classification 
and 
risk 
assessment. ◄ 
The study does not need to be conducted if: 
— the substance is a strong acid (pH ≤ 2,0) 
or base (pH ≥ 11,5), or 
— the substance is spontaneously flammable 
in air or in contact with water or moisture 
at room temperature, or 
— the substance is classified as acute 
toxicity by the dermal route (Category 
1), or 
— an acute toxicity study by the dermal 
route does not indicate skin irritation up 
to the limit dose level (2 000 mg/kg body 
weight). 
8.2. 
Serious eye damage/eye 
irritation 
►M64 8.2. 