the appro­
priate heading. Where considered necessary, the proposal for a testing 
strategy may concern several studies addressing respectively different 
forms of the same substance for the same information requirement. 
While waiting for results of further testing, he shall record in his 
chemical safety report, and include in the exposure scenario developed, 
the interim risk management measures that he has put in place and those 
he recommends to downstream users intended to manage the risks being 
explored. The exposure scenarios and interim risk management 
measures recommended shall address all nanoforms that are covered 
by the registration. 
▼M10 
0.6. 
Steps of a chemical safety assessment 
0.6.1. 
A chemical safety assessment performed by a manufacturer or an 
importer for a substance shall include the following steps 1 to 4 in 
accordance with the respective sections of this Annex: 
1. Human health hazard assessment. 
2. Human health hazard assessment of physicochemical properties. 
3. Environmental hazard assessment. 
4. PBT and vPvB assessment. 
0.6.2. 
In the cases referred to in point 0.6.3 the chemical safety assessment 
shall also include the following steps 5 and 6 in accordance with 
Sections 5 and 6 of this Annex: 
5. 
Exposure assessment. 
5.1. The generation of exposure scenario(s) (or the identification of 
relevant use and exposure categories, if appropriate). 
5.2. Exposure estimation. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 104 
6. 
Risk characterisation. 
▼M51 
0.6.3. 
Where as a result of steps 1 to 4 the manufacturer or importer concludes 
that the substance or, when applicable, nanoforms thereof fulfils the 
criteria for any of the following hazard classes or categories set out 
in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 or is assessed to be a 
PBT or vPvB, the chemical safety assessment shall also include steps 5 
and 6 in accordance with Sections 5 and 6 of this Annex: 
(a) hazard classes 2.1 to 2.4, 2.6 and 2.7, 2.8 types A and B, 2.9, 2.10, 
2.12, 2.13 categories 1 and 2, 2.14 categories 1 and 2, and 2.15 
types A to F; 
(b) hazard classes 3.1 to 3.6, 3.7 adverse effects on sexual function and 
fertility or on development, 3.8 effects other than narcotic effects, 
3.9, and 3.10; 
(c) hazard class 4.1; 
(d) hazard class 5.1. 
▼M10 
0.6.4. 
A summary of all the relevant information used in addressing the points 
above shall be presented under the relevant heading of the Chemical 
Safety Report (Section 7). 
▼C1 
0.7. 
The main element of the exposure part of the chemical safety report is 
the description of the exposure scenario(s) implemented for the manu­
facturer's production, the manufacturer or importer's own use, and those 
recommended by the manufacturer or importer to be implemented for 
the identified use(s). 
An exposure scenario is the set of conditions that describe how the 
substance is manufactured or used during its life-cycle and how the 
manufacturer or importer controls, or recommends downstream users 
to control, exposures of humans and the environment. These sets of 
conditions contain a description of both the risk management 
measures and operational conditions which the manufacturer or 
importer has implemented or recommends to be implemented by down­
stream users. 
If the substance is placed on the market, the relevant exposure scen­
ario(s), including the risk management measures and operational 
conditions shall be included in an annex to the safety data sheet in 
accordance with Annex II. 
0.8. 
The level of detail required in describing an exposure scenario will vary 
substantially from case to case, depending on the use of a substance, its 
hazardous properties and the amount of information available to the 
manufacturer or importer. Exposure scenarios may describe the appro­
priate risk management measures for several individual processes or 
uses of a substance. An exposure scenario may thereby cover a large 
range of processes or uses. Exposure scenarios covering a wide range of 
processes or uses may be referred to as Exposure Categories. Further 
mention of Exposure Scenario in this Annex and Annex II includes 
Exposure Categories if they are developed. 
0.9. 
Where information is not necessary in accordance with Annex XI, this 
fact shall be stated under the appropriate heading of the chemical safety 
report and a reference shall be made to the justification in the technical 
dossier. The fact that no information is required shall also be stated in 
the safety data sheet. 
0.10. 
In relation to particular effects, such as ozone depletion, photochemical 
ozone creation potential, strong odour and tainting, for which the 
procedures set out in Sections 1 to 6 are impracticable, the risks asso­
ciated with such effects shall be assessed on a case-by-case basis and 
the manufacturer or importer shall include a full description and justifi­
cation of such assessments in the chemical safety report and summarised 
in the safety data sheet. 
▼M10

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 105 
0.11. 
When assessing the risk of the use of one or more substances incor­
porated into a special ►M3 mixture ◄ (for instance alloys), the way 
the constituent substances are bonded in the chemical matrix shall be 
taken into account. 
▼M51 
0.11.bis When nanoforms are covered by the chemical safety assessment, an 
appropriate metric for the assessment and presentation of the results 
in steps 1-6 of the chemical safety assessment under 0.6.1 and 0.6.2 
shall be considered, with the justification included in the chemical safety 
report and summarised in the safety data sheet. A multiple metric pres­
entation, including mass metric information, is preferable. When 
possible, a method for reciprocal conversion shall be indicated. 
▼C1 
0.12. 
Where the methodology described in this Annex is not appropriate, 
details of alternative methodology used shall be explained and 
justified in the chemical safety report. 
0.13. 
Part A of the chemical safety report shall include a declaration that the 
risk management measures outlined in the relevant exposure scenarios 
for the manufacturer's or importer's own use(s) are implemented by the 
manufacturer or importer and that those exposure scenarios for the 
identified uses are communicated to distributors and downstream users 
in the safety data sheet(s). 
1. 
HUMAN HEALTH HAZARD ASSESSMENT 
1.0. 
Introduction 
▼M10 
1.0.1. 
The objectives of the human health hazard assessment shall be to 
determine the classification of a substance in accordance with Regu­
lation (EC) No 1272/2008; and to derive levels of exposure to the 
substance above which humans should not be exposed. This level of 
exposure is known as the Derived No-Effect Level (DNEL). 
1.0.2. 
The human health hazard assessment shall consider the toxicokinetic 
profile (i.e. absorption, metabolism, distribution and elimination) of 
the substance and the following groups of effects: 
(1) acute effects such as acute toxicity, irritation and corrosivity; 
(2) sensitisation; 
(3) repeated dose toxicity; and 
(4) CMR effects (carcinogenity, germ cell mutagenicity and toxicity for 
reproduction). 
Based on all the available information, other effects shall be considered 
when necessary. 
▼C1 
1.0.3. 
The hazard assessment shall comprise the following four steps: 
Step 1: Evaluation of non-human information. 
Step 2: Evaluation of human information. 
Step 3: Classification and Labelling. 
Step 4: Derivation of DNELs. 
▼M51 
The assessment shall address all nanoforms that are covered by the 
registration. 
▼C1 
1.0.4. 
The first three steps shall be undertaken for every effect for which 
information is available and shall be recorded under the relevant 
section of the Chemical Safety Report and where required and in 
accordance with Article 31, summarised in the Safety Data Sheet 
under headings 2 and 11. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 106 
1.0.5. 
For any effect for which no relevant information is available, the 
relevant section shall contain the sentence: ‘This information is not 
available’. The justification, including reference to any literature 
search carried out, shall be included in the technical dossier. 
1.0.6. 
Step 4 of the human health hazard assessment shall be undertaken by 
integrating the results from the first three steps and shall be included 
under the relevant heading of the Chemical Safety Report and 
summarised in the Safety Data Sheet under heading 8.1. 
1.1. 
Step 1: Evaluation of non-human information 
1.1.1. 
The evaluation of non-human information shall comprise: 
— the hazard identification for the effect based on all available non- 
human information, 
— the establishment of the quantitative dose (concentration)-response 
(effect) relationship. 
1.1.2. 
When it is not possible to establish the quantitative dose (concen­
tration)-response (effect) relationship, then this should be justified and 
a semi-quantitative or qualitative analysis shall be included. For 
instance, for acute effects it is usually not possible to establish the 
quantitative dose (concentration)-response (effect) relationship on the 
basis of the results of a test conducted in accordance with test 
methods laid down in a Commission Regulation as specified in 
Article 13(3). In such cases it suffices to determine whether and to 
which degree the substance has an inherent capacity to cause the effect. 
▼M10 
1.1.3. 
All non-human information used to assess a particular effect on humans 
and to establish the dose (concentration) – response (effect) relationship, 
shall be briefly presented, if possible in the form of a table or tables, 
distinguishing between in vitro, in vivo and other information. The 
relevant test results (e.g. ATE, LD50, NO(A)EL or LO(A)EL) and 
test conditions (e.g. test duration, route of administration) and other 
relevant information shall be presented, in internationally recognised 
units of measurement for that eff