bstance and identify and apply any appropriate risk 
management measures needed to ensure that the risks to human 
health and the environment are adequately controlled. Where necessary, 
this information shall be included in any safety data sheet prepared by 
him. 
7. 
Downstream users shall keep their chemical safety report up to 
date and available. 
8. 
A chemical safety report prepared in accordance with paragraph 4 
of this Article need not include consideration of the risks to human 
health from the end uses set out in Article 14(5). 
Article 38 
Obligation for downstream users to report information 
1. 
Before commencing or continuing with a particular use of a 
substance that has been registered by an actor up the supply chain in 
accordance with Articles 6 or 18, the downstream user shall report to 
the Agency the information specified in paragraph 2 of this Article, in 
the following cases: 
(a) the downstream user has to prepare a chemical safety report in 
accordance with Article 37(4); or 
(b) the downstream user is relying on the exemptions in Article 37(4)(c) 
or (f). 
2. 
The information reported by the downstream user shall include the 
following: 
(a) his identity and contact details as specified in Section 1.1 of 
Annex VI; 
(b) the registration number(s) referred to in Article 20(3), if available; 
(c) the identity of the substance(s) as specified in Section 2.1 to 2.3.4 
of Annex VI; 
(d) the identity of the manufacturer(s) or the importer(s) or other 
supplier as specified in Section 1.1 of Annex VI; 
(e) a brief general description of the use(s), as specified in Section 3.5 
of Annex VI, and of the conditions of use(s); 
(f) except where the downstream user is relying on the exemption in 
Article 37(4)(c), a proposal for additional testing on vertebrate 
animals, where this is considered necessary by the downstream 
user to complete his chemical safety assessment. 
3. 
The downstream user shall update this information without delay 
in the event of a change in the information reported in accordance with 
paragraph 1. 
4. 
A downstream user shall report to the Agency if his classification 
of a substance is different to that of his supplier. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 47 
5. 
Except where a downstream user is relying on the exemption in 
Article 37(4)(c), reporting in accordance with paragraphs 1 to 4 of this 
Article shall not be required in respect of a substance, on its own or in a 
►M3 mixture ◄, used by the downstream user in quantities of less 
than one tonne per year for that particular use. 
Article 39 
Application of downstream user obligations 
1. 
Downstream users shall be required to comply with the 
requirements of Article 37 at the latest 12 months after receiving a 
registration number communicated to them by their suppliers in a 
safety data sheet. 
2. 
Downstream users shall be required to comply with the 
requirements of Article 38 at the latest six months after receiving a 
registration number communicated to them by their suppliers in a 
safety data sheet. 
TITLE VI 
EVALUATION 
CHAPTER 1 
Dossier evaluation 
Article 40 
Examination of testing proposals 
▼M3 
1. 
The Agency shall examine any testing proposal set out in a regis­
tration or a downstream user report for provision of the information 
specified in Annexes IX and X for a substance. Priority shall be 
given to registrations of substances which have or may have PBT, 
vPvB, sensitising and/or carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic for repro­
duction (CMR) properties, or substances above 100 tonnes per year 
with uses resulting in widespread and diffuse exposure, provided they 
fulfil the criteria for any of the following hazard classes or categories set 
out in Annex I of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008: 
(a) hazard classes 2.1 to 2.4, 2.6 and 2.7, 2.8 types A and B, 2.9, 2.10, 
2.12, 2.13 categories 1 and 2, 2.14 categories 1 and 2, 2.15 types A 
to F; 
(b) hazard classes 3.1 to 3.6, 3.7 adverse effects on sexual function and 
fertility or on development, 3.8 effects other than narcotic effects, 
3.9 and 3.10; 
(c) hazard class 4.1; 
(d) hazard class 5.1. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 48 
2. 
Information relating to testing proposals involving tests on 
vertebrate animals shall be published on the Agency website. The 
Agency shall publish on its website the name of the substance, the 
hazard end-point for which vertebrate testing is proposed, and the 
date by which any third party information is required. It shall invite 
third parties to submit, using the format provided by the Agency, scien­
tifically valid information and studies that address the relevant substance 
and hazard end-point, addressed by the testing proposal, within 45 days 
of the date of publication. All such scientifically valid information and 
studies received shall be taken into account by the Agency in preparing 
its decision in accordance with paragraph 3. 
3. 
On the basis of the examination under paragraph 1, the Agency 
shall draft one of the following decisions and that decision shall be 
taken in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 50 and 51: 
(a) a decision requiring the registrant(s) or downstream user(s) 
concerned to carry out the proposed test and setting a deadline 
for submission of the study summary, or the robust study 
summary if required by Annex I; 
(b) a decision in accordance with point (a), but modifying the 
conditions under which the test is to be carried out; 
(c) a decision in accordance with points (a), (b) or (d) but requiring 
registrant(s) or downstream user(s) to carry out one or more ad­
ditional tests in cases of non-compliance of the testing proposal with 
Annexes IX, X and XI; 
(d) a decision rejecting the testing proposal; 
(e) a decision in accordance with points (a), (b) or (c), if several regis­
trants or downstream users of the same substance have submitted 
proposals for the same test, giving them the opportunity to reach an 
agreement on who will perform the test on behalf of all of them and 
to inform the Agency accordingly within 90 days. If the Agency is 
not informed of such agreement within such 90 days, it shall 
designate one of the registrants or downstream users, as appropriate, 
to perform the test on behalf of all of them. 
4. 
The registrant or downstream user shall submit the information 
required to the Agency by the deadline set. 
Article 41 
Compliance check of registrations 
1. 
The Agency may examine any registration in order to verify any 
of the following: 
(a) that the information in the technical dossier(s) submitted pursuant to 
Article 10 complies with the requirements of Articles 10, 12 and 13 
and with Annexes III and VI to X; 
(b) that the adaptations of the standard information requirements and 
the related justifications submitted in the technical dossier(s) comply 
with the rules governing such adaptations set out in Annexes VII to 
X and with the general rules set out in Annex XI; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 49 
(c) that any required chemical safety assessment and chemical safety 
report comply with the requirements of Annex I and that the 
proposed risk management measures are adequate; 
(d) that any explanation(s) submitted in accordance with Article 11(3) 
or Article 19(2) have an objective basis. 
2. 
The list of dossiers being checked for compliance by the Agency 
shall be made available to Member States competent authorities. 
3. 
On the basis of an examination made pursuant to paragraph 1, the 
Agency may, within 12 months of the start of the compliance check, 
prepare a draft decision requiring the registrant(s) to submit any 
information needed to bring the registration(s) into compliance with 
the relevant information requirements and specifying adequate time 
limits for the submission of further information. Such a decision shall 
be taken in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 50 and 
51. 
4. 
The registrant shall submit the information required to the Agency 
by the deadline set. 
5. 
►M57 To check compliance of registration dossiers with this 
Regulation, the Agency shall select, until 31 December 2023, a 
percentage of those dossiers no lower than 20 % of the total received 
by the Agency for registrations in tonnage bands of 100 tonnes or more 
per year. 
The Agency shall, until 31 December 2027, also select a percentage no 
lower than 20 % of the total received by the Agency for registrations in 
tonnage bands of less than 100 tonnes per year. 
When selecting dossiers for compliance checking, the Agency shall give 
priority, but not exclusively, to dossiers meeting at least one of the 
following criteria: ◄ 
(a) the dossier contains information in Article 10(a)(iv), (vi) and/or (vii) 
submitted separately as per Article 11(3); or 
(b) the dossier is for a substance manufactured or imported in quantities 
of one tonne or more per year and does not meet the requirements 
of Annex VII applying under either Article 12(1)(a) or (b), as the 
case may be; or 
(c) the dossier is for a substance listed in the Community rolling action 
plan referred to in Article 44(2). 
6. 
Any third party may electronically submit information to the 
Agency relating to substances that appear on the list referred to in 
Article 28(4). The Agency shall consider this information together 
with the information submitted according to Article 124 when 
checking and selecting dossiers. 
7. 
The Commission may, after consulting with the Agency, take a 
decision to vary the percentage of dossiers selected and amend or 
include further criteria in paragraph 5 in accordance with the 
procedure referred to in Article 133(4). 
Article 42 
Check of information submitted and follow-up to dossier evaluation 
1. 
The Agency shall examine any information submitted in 
consequence of a decision taken under Articles 40 or 41, and draft 
any appropriate decisions in accordance with these Articles, if 
necessary