e financial year, adjusting it, where necessary, 
according to the Community contribution and any other revenue 
of the Agency; 
(d) a multiannual work programme, which shall be regularly revised. 
It shall adopt the internal rules and procedures of the Agency. These 
rules shall be made public. 
It shall perform its duties in relation to the Agency's budget pursuant to 
Articles 96, 97 and 103. 
It shall exercise disciplinary authority over the Executive Director. 
It shall adopt its rules of procedure. 
It shall appoint the Chairman, the members and alternates of the Board 
of Appeal in accordance with Article 89. 
It shall appoint the members of the Agency committees as set out in 
Article 85. 
It shall forward annually any information relevant to the outcome of the 
evaluation procedures in accordance with Article 96(6). 
Article 79 
Composition of the Management Board 
1. 
The Management Board shall be composed of one representative 
from each Member State and a maximum of six representatives 
appointed by the Commission, including three individuals from 
interested parties without voting rights and in addition two independent 
persons appointed by the European Parliament. 
Each Member State shall nominate a member to the Management 
Board. The members thus nominated shall be appointed by the Council. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 77 
2. 
Members shall be appointed on the basis of their relevant 
experience and expertise in the field of chemical safety or the regulation 
of chemicals whilst ensuring there is relevant expertise amongst the 
board members in the fields of general, financial and legal matters. 
3. 
The duration of the term of office shall be four years. The term of 
office may be renewed once. However, for the first mandate, the 
Commission shall identify half of its appointees, and the Council 
shall identify 12 of its appointees, for whom this period shall be six 
years. 
Article 80 
Chairmanship of the Management Board 
1. 
The Management Board shall elect a Chairman and a Deputy- 
Chairman from among the members with voting rights. The Deputy- 
Chairman shall automatically take the place of the Chairman if he is 
prevented from attending to his duties. 
2. 
The terms of office of the Chairman and the Deputy-Chairman 
shall be two years and shall expire when they cease to be members of 
the Management Board. The term of office shall be renewable once. 
Article 81 
Meetings of the Management Board 
1. 
The meetings of the Management Board shall be convened by 
invitation of its Chairman or at the request of at least one third of the 
Board members. 
2. 
The Executive Director shall take part in the meetings of the 
Management Board, without voting rights. 
3. 
The Chairmen of the Committees and the Chairman of the Forum, 
as referred to in Article 76(1)(c) to (f), are entitled to attend the 
meetings of the Management Board without voting rights. 
Article 82 
Voting of the Management Board 
The Management Board shall adopt rules of procedure for voting, 
including the conditions for a member to vote on behalf of another 
member. The Management Board shall act by a two-thirds majority of 
all members with the right to vote. 
Article 83 
Duties and powers of the Executive Director 
1. 
The Agency shall be managed by its Executive Director, who shall 
perform his duties in the interests of the Community, and independently 
of any specific interests. 
2. 
The Executive Director shall be the legal representative of the 
Agency. He shall be responsible for: 
(a) the day-to-day administration of the Agency; 
(b) managing all the Agency resources necessary for carrying out its 
tasks; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 78 
(c) ensuring that the time-limits laid down in Community legislation 
for the adoption of opinions by the Agency are complied with; 
(d) ensuring appropriate and timely coordination between the 
Committees and the Forum; 
(e) concluding and managing necessary contracts with service 
providers; 
(f) the preparation of the statement of revenue and expenditure and the 
implementation of the budget of the Agency pursuant to Articles 96 
and 97; 
(g) all staff matters; 
(h) providing the secretariat for the Management Board; 
(i) preparing draft opinions of the Management Board concerning the 
proposed rules of procedure of the Committees and of the Forum; 
(j) making arrangements, upon request from the Management Board, 
for the execution of any further function(s) (within the remit of 
Article 77) allotted to the Agency by delegation from the 
Commission; 
(k) establishing and maintaining a regular dialogue with the European 
Parliament; 
(l) determining the terms and conditions for use of software packages; 
(m) rectifying a decision made by the Agency following an appeal and 
after consulting the Chairman of the Board of Appeal. 
3. 
Each year, the Executive Director shall submit the following to the 
Management Board for approval: 
(a) a draft report covering the activities of the Agency in the previous 
year, including information about the number of registration 
dossiers received, the number of substances evaluated, the number 
of applications for authorisation received, the number of proposals 
for restriction received by the Agency and opined upon, the time 
taken for completion of the associated procedures, and the 
substances authorised, dossiers rejected, substances restricted; 
complaints received and the action taken; an overview of the 
activities of the Forum; 
(b) a draft work-programme for the coming year; 
(c) the draft annual accounts; 
(d) the draft forecast budget for the coming year; 
(e) a draft multiannual work programme. 
The Executive Director shall, following approval by the Management 
Board, forward the work programme for the coming year and the multi­
annual work programme to the Member States, the European 
Parliament, the Council and the Commission, and shall have them 
published. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 79 
The Executive Director shall, following approval by the Management 
Board, forward the Agency's general report to the Member States, the 
European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the European 
Economic and Social Committee and the Court of Auditors, and shall 
have it published. 
Article 84 
Appointment of the Executive Director 
1. 
The Executive Director of the Agency shall be appointed by the 
Management Board on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by the 
Commission following a call for expressions of interest published in the 
Official Journal of the European Union and in other periodicals or on 
Internet sites. 
The Executive Director shall be appointed on the grounds of merit and 
documented administrative and management skills, as well as his 
relevant experience in the fields of chemical safety or regulation. The 
Management Board shall take its decision by a two-thirds majority of all 
members with a right to vote. 
Power to dismiss the Executive Director shall lie with the Management 
Board, in accordance with the same procedure. 
Before being appointed, the candidate selected by the Management 
Board shall be invited as soon as possible to make a statement before 
the European Parliament and to answer questions from Members of 
Parliament. 
2. 
The term of the office of the Executive Director shall be five 
years. It may be prolonged by the Management Board once for 
another period of up to five years. 
Article 85 
Establishment of the Committees 
1. 
Each Member State may nominate candidates to membership of 
the Committee for Risk Assessment. The Executive Director shall 
establish a list of the nominees, which shall be published on the 
Agency's website, without prejudice to Article 88(1). The Management 
Board shall appoint the members of the Committee from this list, 
including at least one member but not more than two from the 
nominees of each Member State that has nominated candidates. 
Members shall be appointed for their role and experience in performing 
the tasks specified in Article 77(3). 
2. 
Each Member State may nominate candidates to membership of 
the Committee for Socio-economic Analysis. The Executive Director 
shall establish a list of the nominees, which shall be published on the 
Agency's website, without prejudice to Article 88(1). The Management 
Board shall appoint the members of the Committee from this list, 
including at least one member but not more than two from the 
nominees of each Member State that has nominated candidates. 
Members shall be appointed for their role and experience in performing 
the tasks specified in Article 77(3). 
3. 
Each Member State shall appoint one member to the Member 
State Committee. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 80 
4. 
The Committees shall aim to have a broad range of relevant 
expertise among their members. To this end each Committee may co- 
opt a maximum of five additional members chosen on the basis of their 
specific competence. 
Members of the Committees shall be appointed for a term of three years 
which shall be renewable. 
The members of the Management Board may not be members of the 
Committees. 
The members of each Committee may be accompanied by advisers on 
scientific, technical or regulatory matters. 
The Executive Director or his representative and representatives of the 
Commission shall be entitled to attend all the meetings of the 
Committees and working groups convened by the Agency or its 
committees as observers. Stakeholders may also be invited to attend 
meetings as observers, as appropriate, at the request of the Committee 
members, or the Management Board. 
5. 
The members of each Committee appointed following nomination 
by a Member State shall ensure that there is appropriate coordination 
between the tasks of the Agency and the work of their Member State 
competent authority. 
6. 
The members of the Committees shall be supported by the 
scientific and 