ion 
of a substance has been taken. 
CHAPTER 2 
Granting of authorisations 
Article 60 
Granting of authorisations 
1. 
The Commission shall be responsible for taking decisions on 
applications for authorisations in accordance with this Title. 
2. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 3, an authorisation shall be granted 
if the risk to human health or the environment from the use of a 
substance arising from the intrinsic properties specified in Annex XIV 
is adequately controlled in accordance with Section 6.4 of Annex I and 
as documented in the applicant's chemical safety report, taking into 
account the opinion of the Committee for Risk Assessment referred to 
in Article 64(4)(a). When granting the authorisation, and in any 
conditions imposed therein, the Commission shall take into account 
all discharges, emissions and losses, including risks arising from 
diffuse or dispersive uses, known at the time of the decision. 
The Commission shall not consider the risks to human health arising 
from the use of a substance in a medical device regulated by Council 
Directive 90/385/EEC of 20 June 1990 on the approximation of the 
laws of the Member States relating to active implantable medical 
devices ( 1 ), Council Directive 93/42/EEC of 14 June 1993 concerning 
medical devices ( 2 ) or Directive 98/79/EC of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 27 October 1998 on in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices ( 3 ). 
▼C1 
( 1 ) OJ L 189, 20.7.1990, p. 17. Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) 
No 1882/2003. 
( 2 ) OJ L 169, 12.7.1993, p. 1. Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) 
No 1882/2003. 
( 3 ) OJ L 331, 7.12.1998, p. 1. Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) 
No 1882/2003.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 62 
3. 
Paragraph 2 shall not apply to: 
(a) substances meeting the criteria in Article 57(a), (b), (c) or (f) for 
which it is not possible to determine a threshold in accordance with 
Section 6.4 of Annex I; 
(b) substances meeting the criteria in Article 57(d) or (e); 
(c) substances identified under Article 57(f) having persistent, bioac­
cumulative and toxic properties or very persistent and very bioac­
cumulative properties. 
4. 
If an authorisation cannot be granted under paragraph 2 or for 
substances listed in paragraph 3, an authorisation may only be 
granted if it is shown that socio-economic benefits outweigh the risk 
to human health or the environment arising from the use of the 
substance and if there are no suitable alternative substances or tech­
nologies. This decision shall be taken after consideration of all of the 
following elements and taking into account the opinions of the 
Committee for Risk Assessment and the Committee for Socio- 
economic Analysis referred to in Article 64(4)(a) and (b): 
(a) the risk posed by the uses of the substance, including the appropri­
ateness and effectiveness of the risk management measures 
proposed; 
(b) the socio-economic benefits arising from its use and the socio- 
economic implications of a refusal to authorise as demonstrated 
by the applicant or other interested parties; 
(c) the analysis of the alternatives submitted by the applicant under 
Article 62(4)(e) or any substitution plan submitted by the 
applicant under Article 62(4)(f), and any third party contributions 
submitted under Article 64(2); 
(d) available information on the risks to human health or the environ­
ment of any alternative substances or technologies. 
5. 
When assessing whether suitable alternative substances or tech­
nologies are available, all relevant aspects shall be taken into account 
by the Commission, including: 
(a) whether the transfer to alternatives would result in reduced overall 
risks to human health and the environment, taking into account the 
appropriateness and effectiveness of risk management measures; 
(b) the technical and economic feasibility of alternatives for the 
applicant. 
6. 
A use shall not be authorised if this would constitute a relaxation 
of a restriction set out in Annex XVII. 
7. 
An authorisation shall be granted only if the application is made in 
conformity with the requirements of Article 62. 
8. 
Authorisations shall be subject to a time-limited review without 
prejudice to any decision on a future review period and shall normally 
be subject to conditions, including monitoring. The duration of the time- 
limited review for any authorisation shall be determined on a case-by- 
case basis taking into account all relevant information including the 
elements listed in paragraph 4(a) to (d), as appropriate. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 63 
9. 
The authorisation shall specify: 
(a) the person(s) to whom the authorisation is granted; 
(b) the identity of the substance(s); 
(c) the use(s) for which the authorisation is granted; 
(d) any conditions under which the authorisation is granted; 
(e) the time-limited review period; 
(f) any monitoring arrangement. 
10. 
Notwithstanding any conditions of an authorisation, the holder 
shall ensure that the exposure is reduced to as low a level as is tech­
nically and practically possible. 
Article 61 
Review of authorisations 
1. 
Authorisations granted in accordance with Article 60 shall be 
regarded as valid until the Commission decides to amend or withdraw 
the authorisation in the context of a review, provided that the holder of 
the authorisation submits a review report at least 18 months before the 
expiry of the time-limited review period. Rather than re-submitting all 
elements of the original application for the current authorisation, the 
holder of an authorisation may submit only the number of the current 
authorisation, subject to the second, third and fourth subparagraphs. 
A holder of an authorisation granted in accordance with Article 60 shall 
submit an update of the analysis of alternatives referred to in 
Article 62(4)(e), including information about any relevant research 
and development activities by the applicant, if appropriate, and any 
substitution plan submitted under Article 62(4)(f). If the update of the 
analysis of alternatives shows that there is a suitable alternative 
available taking into account the elements in Article 60(5), he shall 
submit a substitution plan, including a timetable for proposed actions 
by the applicant. If the holder cannot demonstrate that the risk is 
adequately controlled, he shall also submit an update of the socio- 
economic analysis contained in the original application. 
If he can now demonstrate that the risk is adequately controlled, he shall 
submit an update of the chemical safety report. 
If any other elements of the original application have changed, he shall 
also submit updates of these element(s). 
When any updated information is submitted in accordance with this 
paragraph, any decision to amend or withdraw the authorisation in the 
context of the review shall be taken in accordance with the procedure 
referred to in Article 64 applied mutatis mutandis. 
2. 
Authorisations may be reviewed at any time if: 
(a) the circumstances of the original authorisation have changed so as 
to affect the risk to human health or the environment, or the socio- 
economic impact; or 
(b) new information on possible substitutes becomes available. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 64 
The Commission shall set a reasonable deadline by which the holder(s) 
of the authorisation may submit further information necessary for the 
review and indicate by when it will take a decision in accordance with 
Article 64. 
3. 
In its review decision the Commission may, if circumstances have 
changed and taking into account the principle of proportionality, amend 
or withdraw the authorisation, if under the changed circumstances it 
would not have been granted or if suitable alternatives in accordance 
with Article 60(5) become available. In the latter case the Commission 
shall require the holder of the authorisation to present a substitution plan 
if he has not already done so as part of his application or update. 
In cases where there is a serious and immediate risk for human health or 
the environment, the Commission may suspend the authorisation 
pending the review, taking into account the principle of proportionality. 
4. 
If an environmental quality standard referred to in Directive 
96/61/EC is not met, the authorisations granted for the use of the 
substance concerned may be reviewed. 
5. 
If the environmental objectives as referred to in Article 4(1) of 
Directive 2000/60/EC are not met, the authorisations granted for the use 
of the substance concerned in the relevant river basin may be reviewed. 
6. 
If a use of a substance is subsequently prohibited or otherwise 
restricted in Regulation (EC) No 850/2004 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on persistent organic pollutants ( 1 ), 
the Commission shall withdraw the authorisation for that use. 
Article 62 
Applications for authorisations 
1. 
An application for an authorisation shall be made to the Agency. 
2. 
Applications for authorisation may be made by the manufac­
turer(s), importer(s) and/or downstream user(s) of the substance. Appli­
cations may be made by one or several persons. 
3. 
Applications may be made for one or several substances, that meet 
the definition of a group of substances in Section 1.5 of Annex XI, and 
for one or several uses. Applications may be made for the applicant's 
own use(s) and/or for uses for which he intends to place the substance 
on the market. 
4. 
An application for authorisation shall include the following 
information: 
(a) the identity of the substance(s), as referred to in Section 2 of Annex 
VI; 
(b) the name and contact details of the person or persons making the 
application; 
(c) a request for authorisation, specifying for which use(s) the author­
isation is sought and covering the use of the substance in 
►M3 mixtures ◄ and/or the incorporation of the substance in 
ar