e chemical safety assessment performed 
in accordance with Annex I indicates that it is 
needed to further investigate the effects of the 
substance or of relevant transformation and degra­
dation products on sediment organisms. 
The choice of the appropriate test(s) shall be made 
on the basis of the results of the chemical safety 
assessment. ◄ 
9.6.1. Long-term or repro­
ductive 
toxicity 
to 
birds 
9.6.1. Any need for testing should be carefully considered taking 
into account the large mammalian dataset that is usually 
available at this tonnage level. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 204 
10. METHODS OF DETECTION AND ANALYSIS 
Description of the analytical methods shall be provided on request, for the 
relevant compartments for which studies were performed using the analytical 
method concerned. If the analytical methods are not available this shall be 
justified. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 205 
ANNEX XI 
GENERAL RULES FOR ADAPTATION OF THE STANDARD TESTING 
REGIME SET OUT IN ANNEXES VII TO X 
Annexes VII to X set out the information requirements for all substances manu­
factured or imported in quantities of: 
— one tonne or more in accordance with Article 12(1)(a), 
— 10 tonnes or more in accordance with Article 12(1)(c), 
— 100 tonnes or more in accordance with Article 12(1)(d), and 
— 1 000 tonnes or more in accordance with Article 12(1)(e). 
In addition to the specific rules set out in column 2 of Annexes VII to X, a 
registrant may adapt the standard testing regime in accordance with the general 
rules set out in Section 1 of this Annex. Under dossier evaluation the Agency 
may assess these adaptations to the standard testing regime. 
▼M51 
The requirements specific to nanoforms in this Annex are without prejudice to 
requirements applicable to other forms of a substance. 
▼C1 
1. 
TESTING DOES NOT APPEAR SCIENTIFICALLY NECESSARY 
1.1. 
Use of existing data 
▼M64 
Any data generated as from 1 June 2008 shall not be considered as 
existing data and shall not be subject to the general rules for adaptation 
laid down in this point (1.1). 
1.1.1. Data on physical-chemical properties from experiments not carried out 
according to the test methods referred to in Article 13(3) 
▼C1 
Data shall be considered to be equivalent to data generated by the 
corresponding test methods referred to in Article 13(3) if the following 
conditions are met: 
(1) adequacy for the purpose of classification and labelling and/or risk 
assessment; 
(2) sufficient documentation is provided to assess the adequacy of the 
study; and 
(3) the data are valid for the endpoint being investigated and the study is 
performed using an acceptable level of quality assurance. 
1.1.2. Data on human health and environmental properties from experiments 
not carried out according to GLP or the test methods referred to in 
Article 13(3) 
Data shall be considered to be equivalent to data generated by the 
corresponding test methods referred to in Article 13(3) if the following 
conditions are met: 
(1) adequacy for the purpose of classification and labelling and/or risk 
assessment; 
(2) adequate and reliable coverage of the key parameters foreseen to be 
investigated in the corresponding test methods referred to in 
Article 13(3); 
(3) exposure duration comparable to or longer than the corresponding test 
methods referred to in Article 13(3) if exposure duration is a relevant 
parameter; and 
(4) adequate and reliable documentation of the study is provided. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 206 
1.1.3. Historical human data 
Historical human data, such as epidemiological studies on exposed popu­
lations, accidental or occupational exposure data and clinical studies, shall 
be considered. 
The strength of the data for a specific human health effect depends, 
among other things, on the type of analysis and on the parameters 
covered and on the magnitude and specificity of the response and 
consequently the predictability of the effect. Criteria for assessing the 
adequacy of the data include: 
(1) the proper selection and characterisation of the exposed and control 
groups; 
(2) adequate characterisation of exposure; 
(3) sufficient length of follow-up for disease occurrence; 
(4) valid method for observing an effect; 
(5) proper consideration of bias and confounding factors; and 
(6) a reasonable statistical reliability to justify the conclusion. 
In all cases adequate and reliable documentation shall be provided. 
When nanoforms are covered by the registration the above approach shall 
address the nanoforms separately. 
1.2. 
Weight of evidence 
▼M64 
There is sufficient weight of evidence when information from several 
independent sources together enable, through a reasoned justification, a 
conclusion on the information requirement, while the information from 
each single source alone is insufficient to fulfil the information 
requirement. The justification must have regard to the information that 
would otherwise be obtained from the study that shall normally be 
performed for this information requirement. 
There may also be sufficient weight of evidence from the use of newly 
developed test methods, not yet included in the test methods referred to in 
Article 13(3), leading to a reasoned justification that they provide the 
information that would enable a conclusion on the information 
requirement. 
Weight of evidence may lead to the conclusion that a substance has or 
has not a particular property. 
If there is sufficient weight of evidence, the information requirement is 
fulfilled. Consequently, further testing on vertebrate animals shall be 
omitted and further testing not involving vertebrate animals may be 
omitted. 
In all cases, the information provided shall be adequate for the purpose of 
classification, labelling and/or risk assessment, and adequate and reliable 
documentation shall be provided, including: 
— robust study summaries of the studies used as sources of information; 
— a justification explaining why the sources of information together 
provide a conclusion on the information requirement. 
When nanoforms are covered by the registration, the above approach shall 
address the nanoforms separately. 
▼M51 
1.3. 
Qualitative or Quantitative structure-activity relationship ((Q)SAR) 
Results obtained from valid qualitative or quantitative structure-activity 
relationship models ((Q)SARs) may indicate the presence or absence of a 
certain dangerous property. Results of (Q)SARs may be used instead of 
testing when the following conditions are met: 
▼M51

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 207 
— results are derived from a (Q)SAR model whose scientific validity has 
been established, 
— the substance falls within the applicability domain of the (Q)SAR 
model, 
— results are adequate for the purpose of classification and labelling 
and/or risk assessment, and 
— adequate and reliable documentation of the applied method is 
provided. 
The Agency in collaboration with the Commission, Member States and 
interested parties shall develop and provide guidance in assessing which 
(Q)SARs will meet these conditions and provide examples. 
When nanoforms are covered by the registration the above approach shall 
address the nanoforms separately. 
▼C1 
1.4. 
In vitro methods 
Results obtained from suitable in vitro methods may indicate the presence 
of a certain dangerous property or may be important in relation to a 
mechanistic understanding, which may be important for the assessment. 
In this context, ‘suitable’ means sufficiently well developed according to 
internationally agreed test development criteria (e.g. the European Centre 
for the Validation of Alternative Methods (ECVAM)) criteria for the entry 
of a test into the prevalidation process). Depending on the potential risk, 
immediate confirmation requiring testing beyond the information foreseen 
in Annexes VII or VIII or proposed confirmation requiring testing beyond 
the information foreseen in Annexes IX or X for the respective tonnage 
level may be necessary. 
If the results obtained from the use of such in vitro methods do not 
indicate a certain dangerous property, the relevant test shall nevertheless 
be carried out at the appropriate tonnage level to confirm the negative 
result, unless testing is not required in accordance with Annexes VII to X 
or the other rules in this Annex. 
▼M51 
Such confirmation may be waived if the following conditions are met: 
(1) results are derived from an in vitro method whose scientific validity 
has been established by a validation study, according to inter­
nationally agreed validation principles; 
(2) results are adequate for the purpose of classification and labelling 
and/or risk assessment; and 
(3) adequate and reliable documentation of the applied method is 
provided. 
When nanoforms are covered by the registration the above approach in 
points (1) to (3) shall address the nanoforms separately. 
▼C1 
1.5. 
Grouping of substances and read-across approach 
▼M64 
Substances whose physicochemical, toxicological and ecotoxicological 
properties are likely to be similar or follow a regular pattern as a result 
of structural similarity, may be considered as a group, or category, of 
substances. Application of the group concept requires that physico­
chemical properties, human health effects and environmental effects or 
environmental fate may be predicted from data for reference substance(s) 
within the group by interpolation to other substances in the group (read- 
across approach). This avoids the need to test every substance for every 
endpoint. 
▼M51

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 208 
When nanoforms are covered by the registration, the above approach shall 
address the nanoforms separately. For grouping different nanoforms of the 
same substance, the molecular structural similarities alone may not serve 
as a justification. 
If nanoforms covered by a registra