here the registration dossier 
contains the full information in Annex VII. 
3. 
The structure and amount of the fees referred to in paragraph 1 
shall take account of the work required by this Regulation to be carried 
out by the Agency and the competent authority and shall be fixed at 
such a level as to ensure that the revenue derived from them when 
combined with other sources of the Agency's revenue pursuant to 
Article 96(1) is sufficient to cover the cost of the services delivered. 
The fees set for registration shall take into account the work that may be 
done pursuant to Title VI. 
In the case of Article 6(4), Article 7(1) and (5), Article 9(2), Article 11(4), 
Article 17(2) and Article 18(2), the structure and amount of fees shall 
take account of the tonnage range of the substance being registered. 
In all cases, a reduced fee shall be set for SMEs. 
In the case of Article 11(4), the structure and amount of fees shall take 
into account whether information has been submitted jointly or separ­
ately. 
In the case of a request made under Article 10(a)(xi), the structure and 
amount of fees shall take into account the work required by the Agency 
in assessing the justification. 
4. 
The Regulation referred to in paragraph 1 shall specify the circum­
stances under which a proportion of the fees will be transferred to the 
relevant Member State competent authority. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 73 
5. 
The Agency may collect charges for other services it provides. 
TITLE X 
AGENCY 
Article 75 
Establishment and review 
1. 
A European Chemicals Agency is established for the purposes of 
managing and in some cases carrying out the technical, scientific and 
administrative aspects of this Regulation and to ensure consistency at 
Community level in relation to these aspects. 
2. 
The Agency shall be subject to a review by 1 June 2012. 
Article 76 
Composition 
1. 
The Agency shall comprise: 
(a) a Management Board, which shall exercise the responsibilities set 
out in Article 78; 
(b) an Executive Director, who shall exercise the responsibilities set out 
in Article 83; 
(c) a Committee for Risk Assessment, which shall be responsible for 
preparing the opinion of the Agency on evaluations, applications for 
authorisation, proposals for restrictions and proposals for classifi­
cation and labelling under ►M3 Title V of Regulation (EC) No 
1272/2008 ◄ and any other questions that arise from the operation 
of this Regulation relating to risks to human health or the 
environment; 
(d) a Committee for Socio-economic Analysis, which shall be 
responsible for preparing the opinion of the Agency on applications 
for authorisation, proposals for restrictions, and any other questions 
that arise from the operation of this Regulation relating to the socio- 
economic impact of possible legislative action on substances; 
(e) a Member State Committee, which shall be responsible for resolving 
potential divergences of opinions on draft decisions proposed by the 
Agency or the Member States under Title VI and proposals for 
identification of substances of very high concern to be subjected 
to the authorisation procedure under Title VII; 
(f) a Forum for Exchange of Information on Enforcement (hereinafter 
referred to as the Forum) which shall coordinate a network of 
Member States authorities responsible for enforcement of this Regu­
lation; 
(g) a Secretariat, which shall work under the leadership of the 
Executive Director and provide technical, scientific and administra­
tive support for the Committees and the Forum and ensure appro­
priate coordination between them. It shall also undertake the work 
required of the Agency under the procedures for pre-registration, 
registration and evaluation as well as preparation of guidance, 
database maintenance and information provision; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 74 
(h) a Board of Appeal, which shall decide on appeals against decisions 
taken by the Agency. 
2. 
The Committees referred to in points (c), (d) and (e) of paragraph 
1 (hereinafter referred to as the Committees) and the Forum may each 
establish working groups. For this purpose they shall adopt, in 
accordance with their rules of procedure, precise arrangements for 
delegating certain tasks to these working groups. 
3. 
The Committees and the Forum may, if they consider it appro­
priate, seek advice on important questions of a general scientific or 
ethical nature from appropriate sources of expertise. 
Article 77 
Tasks 
1. 
The Agency shall provide the Member States and the institutions 
of the Community with the best possible scientific and technical advice 
on questions relating to chemicals which fall within its remit and which 
are referred to it in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation. 
2. 
The Secretariat shall undertake the following tasks: 
(a) performing the tasks allotted to it under Title II; including facili­
tating the efficient registration of imported substances, in a way 
consistent with the Community's international trading obligations 
towards third countries; 
(b) performing the tasks allotted to it under Title III; 
(c) performing the tasks allotted to it under Title VI; 
(d) performing the tasks allotted to it under Title VIII; 
►M3 (e) establishing and maintaining database(s) with information on 
all registered substances, the classification and labelling 
inventory and the harmonised classification and labelling 
list established in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 
1272/2008. ◄ It shall make the information identified in 
Article 119(1) and (2) in the database(s) publicly available, 
free of charge, over the Internet, except where a request 
made under Article 10(a)(xi) is considered justified. The 
Agency shall make other information in the databases 
available on request in accordance with Article 118; 
(f) making publicly available information as to which substances are 
being, and have been evaluated within 90 days of receipt of the 
information at the Agency, in accordance with Article 119(1); 
(g) providing technical and scientific guidance and tools where appro­
priate for the operation of this Regulation in particular to assist the 
development of chemical safety reports (in accordance with 
Article 14, Article 31(1) and Article 37(4)) and application of 
Article 10(a)(viii), Article 11(3) and Article 19(2) by industry 
and especially by SMEs; and technical and scientific guidance 
for the application of Article 7 by producers and importers of 
articles; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 75 
(h) providing technical and scientific guidance on the operation of this 
Regulation for Member State competent authorities and providing 
support to the helpdesks established by Member States under Title 
XIII; 
(i) providing guidance to stakeholders including Member State 
competent authorities on communication to the public of 
information on the risks and safe use of substances, on their 
own, in ►M3 mixtures ◄ or in articles; 
(j) providing advice and assistance to manufacturers and importers 
registering a substance in accordance with Article 12(1); 
(k) preparing explanatory information on this Regulation for other 
stakeholders; 
(l) at the Commission's request, providing technical and scientific 
support for steps to improve cooperation between the Community, 
its Member States, international organisations and third countries 
on scientific and technical issues relating to the safety of 
substances, as well as active participation in technical assistance 
and capacity building activities on sound management of chemicals 
in developing countries; 
(m) keeping a Manual of Decisions and Opinions based on conclusions 
from the Member State Committee regarding interpretation and 
implementation of this Regulation; 
(n) notification of decisions taken by the Agency; 
(o) provision of formats for submission of information to the Agency. 
3. 
The Committees shall undertake the following tasks: 
(a) performing the tasks allotted to them under ►M3 Titles VI to X ◄; 
(b) at the Executive Director's request, providing technical and 
scientific support for steps to improve cooperation between the 
Community, its Member States, international organisations and 
third countries on scientific and technical issues relating to the 
safety of substances, as well as active participation in technical 
assistance and capacity building activities on sound management 
of chemicals in developing countries; 
(c) at the Executive Director's request, drawing up an opinion on any 
other aspects concerning the safety of substances on their own, in 
►M3 mixtures ◄ or in articles. 
4. 
The Forum shall undertake the following tasks: 
(a) spreading good practice and highlighting problems at Community 
level; 
(b) proposing, coordinating and evaluating harmonised enforcement 
projects and joint inspections; 
(c) coordinating exchange of inspectors; 
(d) identifying enforcement strategies, as well as best practice in 
enforcement; 
(e) developing working methods and tools of use to local inspectors; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 76 
(f) developing an electronic information exchange procedure; 
(g) liaising with industry, taking particular account of the specific needs 
of SMEs, and other stakeholders, including relevant international 
organisations, as necessary; 
(h) examining proposals for restrictions with a view to advising on 
enforceability. 
Article 78 
Powers of the Management Board 
The Management Board shall appoint the Executive Director pursuant 
to Article 84 and an accounting officer in accordance with Article 43 of 
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002. 
It shall adopt: 
(a) by 30 April each year, the general report of the Agency for the 
previous year; 
(b) by 31 October each year the work programme of the Agency for the 
coming year; 
(c) the final budget of the Agency pursuant to Article 96 before the 
beginning of th