le 38. He shall explain why he considers that additional information is 
necessary. While waiting for results of further testing, he shall record in his 
chemical safety report the risk management measures intended to manage the 
risks being explored that he has put in place. The above record taking shall 
address all nanoforms that are covered by his own uses or his identified uses 
down the supply chain. Such information shall be relevant to the nanoforms. 
▼C1 
On completion of any additional testing, the downstream user shall revise the 
Chemical Safety Report, and his Safety Data Sheet if he is required to prepare 
one, as appropriate. 
STEP 3: RISK CHARACTERISATION 
A risk characterisation shall be carried out for each new exposure scenario as 
prescribed in Section 6 of Annex I. The risk characterisation shall be presented 
under the relevant heading of the Chemical Safety Report and summarised in the 
Safety Data Sheet under the relevant heading(s). 
When generating an exposure scenario it will be necessary to make initial 
assumptions about the operating conditions and risk managements measures. If 
the initial assumptions lead to a risk characterisation indicating inadequate 
protection of human health and the environment, then it shall be necessary to 
carry out an iterative process with amendment of one or a number of factors until 
adequate control can be demonstrated. This may require the generation of ad­
ditional hazard or exposure information or appropriate alteration of the process, 
operating conditions or risk management measures. Therefore, iterations may be 
made between on the one hand developing and revising an (initial) exposure 
scenario, which includes developing and implementing risk management 
measures, and on the other hand generating further information to produce the 
definitive exposure scenario. The purpose of generating further information is to 
establish a more precise risk characterisation, based on a refined hazard 
assessment and/or exposure assessment. 
The downstream user shall produce a Chemical Safety Report detailing his 
chemical safety assessment using Part B, Sections 9 and 10, of the format set 
out in Section 7 of Annex I and the other sections of this format, if appropriate. 
Part A of the Chemical Safety Report shall include a declaration that the risk 
management measures outlined in the relevant exposure scenarios are implemen­
ted by the downstream user for his own uses and that the risk management 
measures outlined in the exposure scenarios for the identified uses are 
communicated down the supply chain. 
▼M51

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 212 
ANNEX XIII 
CRITERIA 
FOR 
THE 
IDENTIFICATION 
OF 
PERSISTENT, 
BIOACCUMULATIVE 
AND 
TOXIC 
SUBSTANCES, 
AND 
VERY 
PERSISTENT AND VERY BIOACCUMULATIVE SUBSTANCES 
This Annex lays down the criteria for the identification of persistent, bioaccumu­
lative and toxic substances (PBT substances), and very persistent and very bioac­
cumulative substances (vPvB substances) as well as the information that must be 
considered for the purpose of assessing the P, B, and T properties of a substance. 
For the identification of PBT substances and vPvB substances a weight-of- 
evidence determination using expert judgement shall be applied, by comparing 
all relevant and available information listed in Section 3.2 with the criteria set out 
in Section 1. This shall be applied in particular where the criteria set out in 
Section 1 cannot be applied directly to the available information. 
A weight-of-evidence determination means that all available information bearing 
on the identification of a PBT or a vPvB substance is considered together, such 
as the results of monitoring and modelling, suitable in vitro tests, relevant animal 
data, information from the application of the category approach (grouping, read- 
across), (Q)SAR results, human experience such as occupational data and data 
from accident databases, epidemiological and clinical studies and well docu­
mented case reports and observations. The quality and consistency of the data 
shall be given appropriate weight. The available results regardless of their indi­
vidual conclusions shall be assembled together in a single weight-of-evidence 
determination. 
The information used for the purposes of assessment of the PBT/vPvB properties 
shall be based on data obtained under relevant conditions. 
The identification shall also take account of the PBT/vPvB-properties of relevant 
constituents of a substance and relevant transformation and/or degradation 
products. 
This Annex shall apply to all organic substances, including organo-metals. 
1. 
CRITERIA FOR THE IDENTIFICATION OF PBT AND vPvB 
SUBSTANCES 
1.1. 
PBT Substances 
A substance that fulfils the persistence, bioaccumulation and toxicity 
criteria of Sections 1.1.1, 1.1.2 and 1.1.3 shall be considered to be a 
PBT substance. 
1.1.1. Persistence 
A substance fulfils the persistence criterion (P) in any of the following 
situations: 
(a) the degradation half-life in marine water is higher than 60 days; 
(b) the degradation half-life in fresh or estuarine water is higher than 40 
days; 
(c) the degradation half-life in marine sediment is higher than 180 days; 
(d) the degradation half-life in fresh or estuarine water sediment is higher 
than 120 days; 
(e) the degradation half-life in soil is higher than 120 days. 
▼M11

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 213 
1.1.2. Bioaccumulation 
A substance fulfils the bioaccumulation criterion (B) when the biocon­
centration factor in aquatic species is higher than 2 000. 
1.1.3. Toxicity 
A substance fulfils the toxicity criterion (T) in any of the following 
situations: 
(a) the long-term no-observed effect concentration (NOEC) or EC10 for 
marine or freshwater organisms is less than 0,01 mg/l; 
(b) the substance meets the criteria for classification as carcinogenic 
(category 1A or 1B), germ cell mutagenic (category 1A or 1B), or 
toxic for reproduction (category 1A, 1B, or 2) according to Regu­
lation EC No 1272/2008; 
(c) there is other evidence of chronic toxicity, as identified by the 
substance meeting the criteria for classification: specific target 
organ toxicity after repeated exposure (STOT RE category 1 or 2) 
according to Regulation EC No 1272/2008. 
1.2. 
vPvB Substances 
A substance that fulfils the persistence and bioacumulation criteria of 
Sections 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 shall be considered to be a vPvB substance. 
1.2.1. Persistence 
A substance fulfils the ‘very persistent’ criterion (vP) in any of the 
following situations: 
(a) the degradation half-life in marine, fresh or estuarine water is higher 
than 60 days; 
(b) the degradation half-life in marine, fresh or estuarine water sediment 
is higher than 180 days; 
(c) the degradation half-life in soil is higher than 180 days. 
1.2.2. Bioaccumulation 
A substance fulfils the ‘very bioaccumulative’ criterion (vB) when the 
bioconcentration factor in aquatic species is higher than 5 000. 
2. 
SCREENING AND ASSESSMENT OF P, vP, B, vB and T PROP­
ERTIES 
2.1. 
Registration 
For the identification of PBT and vPvB substances in the registration 
dossier, the registrant shall consider the information as described in 
Annex I and in Section 3 of this Annex. 
If the technical dossier contains for one or more endpoints only 
information as required in Annexes VII and VIII, the registrant shall 
consider information relevant for screening for P, B, or T properties in 
accordance with Section 3.1 of this Annex. If the result from the 
screening tests or other information indicate that the substance may 
have PBT or vPvB properties, the registrant shall generate relevant ad­
ditional information as set out in Section 3.2 of this Annex. In case the 
generation of relevant additional information would require information 
listed in Annexes IX or X, the registrant shall submit a testing proposal. 
Where the process and use conditions of the substance meet the 
conditions as specified in Section 3.2(b) or (c) of Annex XI the additional 
information may be omitted, and subsequently the substance is considered 
as if it is a PBT or vPvB in the registration dossier. No additional 
information needs to be generated for the assessment of PBT/vPvB prop­
erties if there is no indication of P or B properties following the result 
from the screening test or other information. 
▼M11

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 214 
2.2. 
Authorisation 
For dossiers for the purposes of identifying substances referred to in 
Article 57(d) and Article 57(e), relevant information from the registration 
dossiers and other available information as described in Section 3 shall be 
considered. 
3. 
INFORMATION 
RELEVANT 
FOR 
THE 
SCREENING 
AND 
ASSESSMENT OF P, vP, B, vB and T PROPERTIES 
3.1. 
Screening Information 
The following information shall be considered for screening for P, vP, B, 
vB and T properties in the cases referred to in the second paragraph of 
Section 2.1 and may be considered for screening for P, vP, B, vB and T 
properties in the context of Section 2.2. 
3.1.1. Indication of P and vP properties 
(a) Results from tests on ready biodegradation in accordance with Section 
9.2.1.1 of Annex VII; 
(b) Results from other screening tests (e.g. enhanced ready test, tests on 
inherent biodegradability); 
(c) Results obtained from biodegradation (Q)SAR models in accordance 
with Section 1.3 of Annex XI; 
(d) Other information provided that its suitability and reliability can be 
reasonably demonstrated. 
3.1.2. Indication of B and vB properties 
(a) Octanol-water partitioning coefficient experimentally determined in 
accordance with Section 7.8 of Annex VII or estimated by (Q)SAR 
models in accordance with Section 1.3 of Annex XI; 
(b) Other information provided that its suitability and reliability can be 
reasonably demonstrated. 
3.1.3. Indication of T properties 
(a) Short-term aquatic toxicity in accordance with