mixture has not been tested for its 
health effects as a whole, relevant information on relevant substances 
listed under section 3 shall be provided. 
11.1.11. 
Mixture versus substance information 
11.1.11.1. The substances in a mixture may interact with each other in the body, 
resulting in different rates of absorption, metabolism and excretion. 
As a result, the toxic actions may be altered and the overall toxicity 
of the mixture may be different from that of the substances in it. This 
shall be taken into account when providing toxicological information 
in this subsection of the safety data sheet. 
11.1.11.2. It is necessary to consider whether the concentration of each 
substance is sufficient to contribute to the overall health effects of 
the mixture. The information on toxic effects shall be presented for 
each substance, except for the following cases: 
(a) if the information is duplicated, it shall be listed only once for the 
mixture overall, such as when two substances both cause 
vomiting and diarrhoea; 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 144 
(b) if it is unlikely that these effects will occur at the concentrations 
present, such as when a mild irritant is diluted to below a certain 
concentration in a non-irritant solution; 
(c) where information on interactions between substances in a 
mixture is not available, assumptions shall not be made and 
instead the health effects of each substance shall be listed separ­
ately. 
11.2 
Information on other hazards 
11.2.1. 
Endocrine disrupting properties 
Information on adverse health effects caused by endocrine disrupting 
properties shall be provided, where available, for the substances 
identified as having endocrine disrupting properties in Subsection 
2.3. This information shall consist of brief summaries of the 
information derived from application of the assessment criteria laid 
down in the corresponding Regulations ((EC) No 1907/2006, (EU) 
2017/2100, (EU) 2018/605), that is relevant to assess endocrine 
disrupting properties for human health. 
11.2.2. 
Other information 
Other relevant information on adverse health effects shall be included 
even when not required by the classification criteria. 
12. 
SECTION 12: Ecological information 
This section of the safety data sheet shall provide information to 
enable evaluation of the environmental impact of the substance or 
mixture where it is released to the environment. Subsections 12.1 
to 12.7 of the safety data sheet shall provide a short summary of 
the data including, where available, relevant test data and clearly 
indicating species, media, units, test duration and test conditions. 
This information may assist in handling spills, and evaluating waste 
treatment practices, control of release, accidental release measures and 
transport. If it is stated that a particular property does not apply 
(because the available data shows that the substance or mixture 
does not meet the criteria for classification) or if information on a 
particular property is not available, the reasons shall be indicated. 
Additionally, if a substance or mixture is not classified for other 
reasons (for example, due to the technical impossibility of obtaining 
the data or to inconclusive data) this should be clearly stated on the 
safety data sheet. 
Some properties are substance specific, i.e. bioaccumulation, 
persistence and degradability, and that information shall be given, 
where available and appropriate, for each relevant substance in the 
mixture (i.e. those which are required to be listed in section 3 of the 
safety data sheet and are hazardous to the environment or PBT/vPvB 
– substances). Information shall also be provided for hazardous trans­
formation products arising from the degradation of substances and 
mixtures. 
The information in this section shall be consistent with the 
information provided in the registration and/or in the chemical 
safety report where required, and with the classification of the 
substance or mixture. 
Where reliable and relevant experimental data are available, that data 
shall be provided and take precedence over information obtained from 
models. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 145 
12.1. 
Toxicity 
Information on toxicity using data from tests performed on aquatic 
and/or terrestrial organisms shall be provided when available. This 
shall include relevant available data on aquatic toxicity, both acute 
and chronic for fish, crustaceans, algae and other aquatic plants. In 
addition, toxicity data on soil micro- and macroorganisms and other 
environmentally relevant organisms, such as birds, bees and plants, 
shall be included when available. Where the substance or mixture has 
inhibitory effects on the activity of microorganisms, the possible 
impact on sewage treatment plants shall be mentioned. 
Where experimental data are not available, the supplier shall consider 
whether reliable and relevant information obtained from models can 
be provided. 
For substances subject to registration, summaries of the information 
derived from the application of Annexes VII to XI of this Regulation 
shall be included. 
12.2. 
Persistence and degradability 
Degradability is the potential for the substance or the appropriate 
substances in a mixture to degrade in the environment, either 
through biodegradation or other processes, such as oxidation or 
hydrolysis. Persistence is the lack of demonstration of degradation 
in the situations defined in Sections 1.1.1 and 1.2.1 of Annex XIII. 
Test results relevant to assess persistence and degradability shall be 
given where available. If degradation half-lives are quoted it must be 
indicated whether these half-lives refer to mineralisation or to primary 
degradation. The potential of the substance or certain substances in a 
mixture to degrade in sewage treatment plants shall also be 
mentioned. 
Where experimental data are not available, the supplier shall consider 
whether reliable and relevant information obtained from models can 
be provided. 
This information shall be given where available and appropriate, for 
each individual substance in the mixture, which is required to be 
listed in section 3 of the safety data sheet. 
12.3. 
Bioaccumulative potential 
Bioaccumulative potential is the potential of the substance or certain 
substances in a mixture to accumulate in biota and, eventually, to 
pass through the food chain. Test results relevant to assess the bioac­
cumulative potential shall be given. This shall include reference to the 
octanol-water partition coefficient (K ow ) and bioconcentration factor 
(BCF), or other relevant parameters related to bioaccumulation, if 
available. 
Where experimental data are not available, it shall be considered 
whether model predictions can be provided. 
This information shall be given where available and appropriate, for 
each individual substance in the mixture which is required to be listed 
in section 3 of the safety data sheet. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 146 
12.4. 
Mobility in soil 
Mobility in soil is the potential of the substance or the components of 
a mixture, if released to the environment, to move under natural 
forces to the groundwater or to a distance from the site of release. 
The potential for mobility in soil shall be given where available. 
Information on mobility in soil can be determined from relevant 
mobility data such as adsorption studies or leaching studies, known 
or predicted distribution to environmental compartments, or surface 
tension. For example, soil adsorption coefficient (Koc) values can be 
predicted from Kow. Leaching and mobility can be predicted from 
models. 
This information shall be given where available and appropriate, for 
each individual substance in the mixture which is required to be listed 
in section 3 of the safety data sheet. 
12.5. 
Results of PBT and vPvB assessment 
Where a chemical safety report is required, the results of the PBT and 
vPvB assessment as set out in the chemical safety report shall be 
given. 
12.6. 
Endocrine disrupting properties 
Information on adverse effects on the environment caused by 
endocrine disrupting properties shall be provided where available, 
for the substances identified as having endocrine disrupting properties 
in subsection 2.3. This information shall consist of brief summaries of 
the information derived from application of the assessment criteria 
laid down in the corresponding Regulations ((EC) No 1907/2006, 
(EU) 2017/2100, (EU) 2018/605), that is relevant to assess 
endocrine disrupting properties for the environment. 
12.7. 
Other adverse effects 
Information on any other adverse effects on the environment shall be 
included where available, such as environmental fate (exposure), 
photochemical ozone creation potential, ozone depletion potential or 
global warming potential. 
13. 
SECTION 13: Disposal considerations 
This section of the safety data sheet shall provide information for 
proper waste management of the substance or mixture and/or its 
container to assist in the determination of safe and environmentally 
preferred waste management options, consistent with the requirements 
of Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the 
Council ( 1 ) by the Member State in which the safety data sheet is 
being supplied. Information relevant for the safety of persons 
conducting waste management activities shall complement the 
information given in section 8. 
Where a chemical safety report is required and where a waste stage 
analysis has been performed, the information on the waste 
management measures shall be consistent with the identified uses in 
the chemical safety report and the exposure scenarios from the 
chemical safety report set out in the annex to the safety data sheet. 
13.1. 
Waste treatment methods 
This subsection of the safety data sheet shall: 
(a) specify waste treatment containers and methods including the