(2) shall apply adapted as 
necessary. The Agency shall assign a number to the notification and 
a notification date, which shall be the date of receipt of the notification 
at the Agency, and shall forthwith communicate that number and date to 
the manufacturer, or importer, or producer of articles concerned. The 
Agency shall also communicate this information to the competent 
authority of the Member State(s) concerned. 
4. 
The Agency may decide to impose conditions with the aim of 
ensuring that the substance or the ►M3 mixture ◄ or article in 
which the substance is incorporated will be handled only by staff of 
listed customers as referred to in paragraph 2(e) in reasonably controlled 
conditions, in accordance with the requirements of legislation for the 
protection of workers and the environment, and will not be made 
available to the general public at any time either on its own or in a 
►M3 mixture ◄ or article and that remaining quantities will be re- 
collected for disposal after the exemption period. 
In such cases, the Agency may ask the notifier to provide additional 
necessary information. 
5. 
In the absence of any indication to the contrary, the manufacturer 
or importer of the substance or the producer or importer of articles may 
manufacture or import the substance or produce or import the articles 
not earlier than two weeks after the notification. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 19 
6. 
The manufacturer or importer or producer of articles shall comply 
with any conditions imposed by the Agency in accordance with 
paragraph 4. 
7. 
The Agency may decide to extend the five-year exemption period 
by a further maximum of five years or, in the case of substances to be 
used exclusively in the development of medicinal products for human or 
veterinary use, or for substances that are not placed on the market, for a 
further maximum of ten years, upon request if the manufacturer or 
importer or producer of articles can demonstrate that such an 
extension is justified by the research and development programme. 
8. 
The Agency shall forthwith communicate any draft decisions to 
the competent authorities of each Member State in which the manu­
facture, import, production or product and process orientated research 
takes place. 
When taking decisions as provided for in paragraphs 4 and 7, the 
Agency shall take into account any comments made by such 
competent authorities. 
9. 
The Agency and the competent authorities of the Member States 
concerned shall always keep confidential the information submitted in 
accordance with paragraphs 1 to 8. 
10. 
An appeal may be brought, in accordance with Articles 91, 92 
and 93, against Agency decisions under paragraphs 4 and 7 of this 
Article. 
Article 10 
Information to be submitted for general registration purposes 
A registration required by Article 6 or by Article 7(1) or (5) shall 
include all the following information: 
(a) a technical dossier including: 
(i) the identity of the manufacturer(s) or importer(s) as specified 
in section 1 of Annex VI; 
(ii) the identity of the substance as specified in section 2 of 
Annex VI; 
(iii) information on the manufacture and use(s) of the substance as 
specified in section 3 of Annex VI; this information shall 
represent all the registrant's identified use(s). This information 
may include, if the registrant deems appropriate, the relevant 
use and exposure categories; 
(iv) the classification and labelling of the substance as specified in 
section 4 of Annex VI; 
(v) guidance on safe use of the substance as specified in Section 
5 of Annex VI; 
(vi) study summaries of the information derived from the appli­
cation of Annexes VII to XI; 
(vii) robust study summaries of the information derived from the 
application of Annexes VII to XI, if required under Annex I; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 20 
(viii) an indication as to which of the information submitted under 
(iii), (iv), (vi), (vii) or subparagraph (b) has been reviewed by 
an assessor chosen by the manufacturer or importer and 
having appropriate experience; 
(ix) proposals for testing where listed in Annexes IX and X; 
(x) for substances in quantities of 1 to 10 tonnes, exposure 
information as specified in section 6 of Annex VI; 
(xi) a request as to which of the information in Article 119(2) the 
manufacturer or importer considers should not be made 
available on the Internet in accordance with Article 77(2)(e), 
including a justification as to why publication could be 
harmful for his or any other concerned party's commercial 
interests. 
Except in cases covered under Article 25(3), Article 27(6) or 
Article 30(3), the registrant shall be in legitimate possession of or 
have permission to refer to the full study report summarised under 
(vi) and (vii) for the purpose of registration; 
(b) a chemical safety report when required under Article 14, in the 
format specified in Annex I. The relevant sections of this report 
may include, if the registrant considers appropriate, the relevant use 
and exposure categories. 
Article 11 
Joint submission of data by multiple registrants 
1. 
When a substance is intended to be manufactured in the 
Community by one or more manufacturers and/or imported by one or 
more importers, and/or is subject to registration under Article 7, the 
following shall apply. 
Subject to paragraph 3, the information specified in Article 10(a)(iv), 
(vi), (vii) and (ix), and any relevant indication under Article 10(a)(viii) 
shall first be submitted by the one registrant acting with the agreement 
of the other assenting registrant(s) (hereinafter referred to as the lead 
registrant). 
Each registrant shall subsequently submit separately the information 
specified in Article 10(a)(i), (ii), (iii) and (x), and any relevant indi­
cation under Article 10(a)(viii). 
The registrants may decide themselves whether to submit the 
information specified in Article 10(a)(v) and (b) and any relevant indi­
cation under Article 10(a)(viii) separately or whether one registrant is to 
submit this information on behalf of the others. 
2. 
Each registrant need only comply with paragraph 1 for items of 
information specified in Article 10(a)(iv), (vi), (vii) and (ix) that are 
required for the purposes of registration within his tonnage band in 
accordance with Article 12. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 21 
3. 
A registrant may submit the information referred to in 
Article 10(a)(iv), (vi), (vii) or (ix) separately if: 
(a) it would be disproportionately costly for him to submit this 
information jointly; or 
(b) submitting the information jointly would lead to disclosure of 
information which he considers to be commercially sensitive and 
is likely to cause him substantial commercial detriment; or 
(c) he disagrees with the lead registrant on the selection of this 
information. 
If points (a), (b) or (c) apply, the registrant shall submit, along with the 
dossier, an explanation as to why the costs would be disproportionate, 
why disclosure of information was likely to lead to substantial 
commercial detriment or the nature of the disagreement, as the case 
may be. 
4. 
A submission for registration shall be accompanied by the fee 
required in accordance with Title IX. 
Article 12 
Information to be submitted depending on tonnage 
1. 
The technical dossier referred to in Article 10(a) shall include 
under points (vi) and (vii) of that provision all physicochemical, toxi­
cological and ecotoxicological information that is relevant and available 
to the registrant and as a minimum the following: 
(a) the information specified in Annex VII for non-phase-in substances, 
and for phase-in substances meeting one or both of the criteria 
specified in Annex III, manufactured or imported in quantities of 
one tonne or more per year per manufacturer or importer; 
(b) the information on physicochemical properties specified in Annex 
VII, section 7 for phase-in substances manufactured or imported in 
quantities of one tonne or more per year per manufacturer or 
importer which do not meet either of the criteria specified in 
Annex III; 
(c) the information specified in Annexes VII and VIII for substances 
manufactured or imported in quantities of 10 tonnes or more per 
year per manufacturer or importer; 
(d) the information specified in Annexes VII and VIII and testing 
proposals for the provision of the information specified in Annex 
IX for substances manufactured or imported in quantities of 100 
tonnes or more per year per manufacturer or importer; 
(e) the information specified in Annexes VII and VIII and testing 
proposals for the provision of the information specified in 
Annexes IX and X for substances manufactured or imported in 
quantities of 1 000 tonnes or more per year per manufacturer or 
importer. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 22 
2. 
As soon as the quantity of a substance per manufacturer or 
importer that has already been registered reaches the next tonnage 
threshold, the manufacturer or importer shall inform the Agency im­
mediately of the additional information he would require under 
paragraph 1. Article 26(3) and (4) shall apply adapted as necessary. 
3. 
This Article shall apply to producers of articles adapted as 
necessary. 
Article 13 
General requirements for generation of information on intrinsic 
properties of substances 
1. 
Information on intrinsic properties of substances may be generated 
by means other than tests, provided that the conditions set out in Annex 
XI are met. In particular for human toxicity, information shall be 
generated whenever possible by means other than vertebrate animal 
tests, through the use of alternative methods, for example, in vitro 
methods or qualitative or quantitative structure-activity relationship 
models or from information from structurally related substances 
(grouping or read-across). Testing in accordance with Annex VIII, 
Secti