. 
►M64 The study may not be waived on the basis of 
low octanol-water partition coefficient alone, unless the 
potential for bioaccumulation of the substance is solely 
driven by lipophilicity. For instance, the study may not 
be waived on the basis of low octanol-water partition 
coefficient alone if the substance is surface active or 
ionisable at environmental pH (pH 4 – 9). ◄ 
For nanoforms, use of any physicochemical property 
(e.g. octanol water partition coefficient, dissolution 
rate, dispersion stability) as a reason for waiving the 
study shall include adequate justification of its 
relevance to low potential for bioaccumulation or 
unlikely direct and indirect exposure of the aquatic 
compartment. 
9.3.3. 
Further information on 
adsorption/desorption 
depending 
on 
the 
results of the study 
required in Annex VIII 
9.3.3. 
The study need not be conducted if: 
based on the physicochemical properties, the substance 
can be expected to have a low potential for adsorption 
(e.g. the substance has a low octanol water partition 
coefficient), or 
the substance and its degradation products decompose 
rapidly. 
►M64 The study may not be waived on the basis of 
low octanol-water partition coefficient alone, unless the 
adsorptive properties of the substance are solely driven 
by lipophilicity. For instance, the study may not be 
waived on the basis of low octanol-water partition coef­
ficient alone if the substance is surface active or 
ionisable at environmental pH (pH 4 – 9). ◄ 
For nanoforms, use of any physicochemical property 
(e.g. octanol water partition coefficient, dissolution 
rate, dispersion stability) as a reason for waiving the 
study shall include adequate justification of its 
relevance to low potential for adsorption. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 196 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION 
REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
9.4. 
Effects 
on 
terrestrial 
organisms 
►M70 9.4. 
These studies do not need to be conducted if 
direct and 
indirect exposure 
of the soil 
compartment is unlikely. 
In the absence of toxicity data for soil organisms, 
the equilibrium partitioning method may be 
applied to assess the hazard to soil organisms. 
Where the equilibrium partitioning method is 
applied to nanoforms, this shall be scientifically 
justified. The choice of the appropriate test(s) 
shall be made on the basis of the results of the 
chemical safety assessment. 
In particular for substances that have a high 
potential to adsorb to soil or that are very 
persistent, the registrant shall propose or the 
Agency may require long-term toxicity testing 
as referred to in Annex X instead of short-term 
toxicity testing. ◄ 
▼C1 
9.4.1. 
Short-term toxicity to 
invertebrates 
9.4.2. 
Effects on soil micro- 
organisms 
9.4.3. 
Short-term toxicity to 
plants 
10. METHODS OF DETECTION AND ANALYSIS 
Description of the analytical methods shall be provided on request, for the 
relevant compartments for which studies were performed using the analytical 
method concerned. If the analytical methods are not available this shall be 
justified. 
▼M51

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 197 
ANNEX X 
STANDARD INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBSTANCES 
MANUFACTURED 
OR 
IMPORTED 
IN 
QUANTITIES 
OF 
1 000 
TONNES OR MORE ( 1 ) 
At the level of this Annex, the registrant must submit a proposal and a time 
schedule for fulfilling the information requirements of this Annex in accordance 
with Article 12(1)(e). 
Column 1 of this Annex establishes the standard information required for all 
substances manufactured or imported in quantities of 1 000 tonnes or more in 
accordance with Article 12(1)(e). Accordingly, the information required in 
column 1 of this Annex is additional to that required in column 1 of Annexes 
VII, VIII and IX. Any other relevant physicochemical, toxicological and ecot­
oxicological information that is available shall be provided. Column 2 of this 
Annex lists specific rules according to which the registrant may propose to omit 
the required standard information, replace it by other information, provide it at a 
later stage or adapt it in another way. If the conditions are met under which 
column 2 of this Annex allows an adaptation to be proposed, the registrant shall 
clearly state this fact and the reasons for proposing each adaptation under the 
appropriate headings in the registration dossier. 
▼M51 
Without prejudice to the information submitted for other forms, any relevant 
physicochemical, toxicological and ecotoxicological information shall include 
characterisation of the nanoform tested and test conditions. A justification shall 
be provided where QSARs are used or evidence is obtained by means other than 
testing, as well as a description of the range of the characteristics/properties of 
the nanoforms to which the evidence can be applied. 
▼C1 
In addition to these specific rules, a registrant may propose to adapt the required 
standard information set out in column 1 of this Annex according to the general 
rules contained in Annex XI. In this case as well, he shall clearly state the 
reasons for any decision to propose adaptations to the standard information 
under the appropriate headings in the registration dossier referring to the appro­
priate specific rule(s) in column 2 or in Annex XI ( 2 ). 
Before new tests are carried out to determine the properties listed in this Annex, 
all available in vitro data, in vivo data, historical human data, data from valid 
(Q)SARs and data from structurally related substances (read-across approach) 
shall be assessed first. In vivo testing with corrosive substances at concen­
tration/dose levels causing corrosivity shall be avoided. Prior to testing, further 
guidance on testing strategies should be consulted in addition to this Annex. 
▼M64 
Where a test method offers flexibility in the study design, for example in relation 
to the choice of dose levels, the chosen study design shall ensure that the data 
generated are adequate for hazard identification and risk assessment. To this end, 
▼C1 
( 1 ) This Annex shall apply to producers of articles that are required to register in accordance 
with Article 7 and to other downstream users that are required to carry out tests under 
this Regulation adapted as necessary. 
( 2 ) Note: conditions for not requiring a specific test that are set out in the appropriate test 
methods in the Commission Regulation on test methods as specified in Article 13(3) that 
are not repeated in column 2, also apply.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 198 
testing shall be performed at appropriately high dose levels. If dose (concen­
tration) selection is limited by the physicochemical properties or biological 
effects of the test substance, justification shall be provided. 
▼C1 
When, for certain endpoints, it is proposed not to provide information for other 
reasons than those mentioned in column 2 of this Annex or in Annex XI, this 
fact and the reasons shall also be clearly stated. 
8. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
▼M70 
8.4. 
Mutagenicity 
8.4. The studies referred to in points 8.4.6 and 8.4.7 do not need 
to be conducted in any of the following cases: 
— the substance is known to cause germ cell mutagenicity, 
meeting the criteria for classification in the hazard class 
germ cell mutagenicity category 1A or 1B, and appro­
priate risk management measures are implemented, 
— the substance is known to be a genotoxic carcinogen, 
meeting the criteria for classification both in the hazard 
class germ cell mutagenicity category 1A or 1B or 2 and 
in the hazard class carcinogenicity category 1A or 1B, 
and appropriate risk management measures are imple­
mented. 
8.4.6. 
A second in vivo mammalian somatic 
cell genotoxicity study, if there is a 
positive result in any of the in vitro 
genotoxicity 
studies 
referred 
to 
in 
Annex VII or Annex VIII, which gives 
rise to both chromosomal aberration 
concern and gene mutation concern. 
The second study shall address chro­
mosomal aberration or gene mutation, 
as appropriate, which has not been 
addressed 
by 
the 
first 
in 
vivo 
mammalian somatic cell genotoxicity 
study. 
8.4.7. 
A second in vivo mammalian germ cell 
genotoxicity study, if there is a positive 
result in in vivo mammalian somatic cell 
genotoxicity studies, which gives rise to 
both chromosomal aberration concern 
and gene mutation concern. The second 
study shall address the chromosomal 
aberration or gene mutation, as appro­
priate, which has not been addressed by 
the first in vivo mammalian germ cell 
genotoxicity study. 
8.4.7. 
The study does not need to be conducted if there is clear 
evidence that neither the substance nor its metabolites 
reach the germ cells. 
▼M64

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 199 
COLUMN 1 
STANDARD INFORMATION REQUIRED 
COLUMN 2 
SPECIFIC RULES FOR ADAPTATION FROM COLUMN 1 
▼M51 
8.6.3. 
A long-term repeated toxicity study (≥ 12 months) may be 
proposed by the registrant or required by the Agency in 
accordance with Articles 40 or 41 if the frequency and 
duration of human exposure indicates that a longer term 
study is appropriate and one of the following conditions is 
met: 
— serious or severe toxicity effects of particular concern 
were observed in the 28-day or 90-day study for which 
the available evidence is inadequate for toxicological 
evaluation or risk characterisation, or 
— effects shown in substances with a clear relationship in 
molecular structure with the substance being studied 
were not detected in the 28-day or 90-day study, or 
— the substance may have a dangerous property that 
cannot be detected in a 90-day study. 
If nanoforms are covered by the registration, physico­
chemical characteristics, in particular particle size, shape 
and other morphological parameters, surface functional­
isati