ticles, where this is relevant; 
▼C1 
( 1 ) OJ L 158, 30.4.2004, p. 7, corrected in OJ L 229, 29.6.2004, p. 5. Regulation 
as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1195/2006 (OJ L 217, 8.8.2006, 
p. 1).

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 65 
(d) unless already submitted as part of the registration, a chemical 
safety report in accordance with Annex I covering the risks to 
human health and/or the environment from the use of the 
substance(s) arising from the intrinsic properties specified in 
Annex XIV; 
(e) an analysis of the alternatives considering their risks and the 
technical and economic feasibility of substitution and including, if 
appropriate information about any relevant research and develop­
ment activities by the applicant; 
(f) where the analysis referred to in point (e) shows that suitable alter­
natives are available, taking into account the elements in 
Article 60(5), a substitution plan including a timetable for 
proposed actions by the applicant. 
5. 
The application may include: 
(a) a 
socio-economic 
analysis 
conducted 
in 
accordance 
with 
Annex XVI; 
(b) a justification for not considering risks to human health and the 
environment arising either from: 
(i) emissions of a substance from an installation for which a permit 
was granted in accordance with Directive 96/61/EC; or 
(ii) discharges of a substance from a point source governed by the 
requirement for prior regulation referred to in Article 11(3)(g) 
of Directive 2000/60/EC and legislation adopted under 
Article 16 of that Directive. 
6. 
The application shall not include the risks to human health arising 
from the use of a substance in a medical device regulated by Directives 
90/385/EEC, 93/42/EEC or 98/79/EC. 
7. 
An application for an authorisation shall be accompanied by the 
fee required in accordance with Title IX. 
Article 63 
Subsequent applications for authorisation 
1. 
If an application has been made for a use of a substance, a 
subsequent applicant may refer to the appropriate parts of the 
previous application submitted in accordance with Article 62(4)(d), (e) 
and (f) and (5)(a), provided that the subsequent applicant has permission 
from the previous applicant to refer to these parts of the application. 
2. 
If an authorisation has been granted for a use of a substance, a 
subsequent applicant may refer to the appropriate parts of the previous 
application submitted in accordance with Article 62(4)(d), (e) and (f) 
and (5)(a), provided that the subsequent applicant has permission from 
the holder of the authorisation to refer to these parts of the application. 
3. 
Before referring to any previous application in accordance with 
paragraphs 1 and 2, the subsequent applicant shall update the information 
of the original application as necessary. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 66 
Article 64 
Procedure for authorisation decisions 
1. 
The Agency shall acknowledge the date of receipt of the appli­
cation. The Agency's Committees for Risk Assessment and Socio- 
economic Analysis shall give their draft opinions within ten months 
of the date of receipt of the application. 
2. 
The Agency shall make available on its web-site broad 
information on uses, taking into account Articles 118 and 119 on 
access to information, for which applications have been received and 
for reviews of authorisations, with a deadline by which information on 
alternative substances or technologies may be submitted by interested 
third parties. 
3. 
In preparing its opinion, each Committee referred to in paragraph 
1 shall first check that the application includes all the information 
specified in Article 62 that is relevant to its remit. If necessary, the 
Committees shall, in consultation with each other, make a joint request 
to the applicant for additional information to bring the application into 
conformity with the requirements of Article 62. The Committee for 
Socio-economic Analysis may, if it deems it necessary, require the 
applicant or request third parties to submit, within a specified time 
period, additional information on possible alternative substances or tech­
nologies. Each Committee shall also take into account any information 
submitted by third parties. 
4. 
The draft opinions shall include the following elements: 
(a) Committee for Risk Assessment: an assessment of the risk to human 
health and/or the environment arising from the use(s) of the 
substance, including the appropriateness and effectiveness of the 
risk management measures as described in the application and, if 
relevant, an assessment of the risks arising from possible alter­
natives; 
(b) Committee for Socio-economic Analysis: an assessment of the 
socio-economic factors and the availability, suitability and 
technical feasibility of alternatives associated with the use(s) of 
the substance as described in the application, when an application 
is made in accordance with Article 62 and of any third party 
contributions submitted under paragraph 2 of this Article. 
5. 
The Agency shall send these draft opinions to the applicant by the 
end of the deadline set out in paragraph 1. Within one month of receipt 
of the draft opinion, the applicant may provide written notice that he 
wishes to comment. The draft opinion shall be deemed to have been 
received seven days after the Agency has sent it. 
If the applicant does not wish to comment, the Agency shall send these 
opinions to the Commission, the Member States and the applicant, 
within 15 days of the end of the period within which the applicant 
may comment or within 15 days of receipt of notice from the 
applicant that he does not intend to comment. 
If the applicant wishes to comment, he shall send his written argumen­
tation to the Agency within two months of the receipt of the draft 
opinion. The Committees shall consider the comments and adopt their 
final opinions within two months of receipt of the written argumen­
tation, taking this argumentation into account where appropriate. 
Within a further 15 days the Agency shall send the opinions, with 
the written argumentation attached, to the Commission, the Member 
States and the applicant. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 67 
6. 
The Agency shall determine in accordance with Articles 118 and 
119 which parts of its opinions and parts of any attachments thereto 
should be made publicly available on its website. 
7. 
In cases covered by Article 63(1), the Agency shall treat the 
applications together, provided the deadlines for the first application 
can be met. 
8. 
The Commission shall prepare a draft authorisation decision 
within three months of receipt of the opinions from the Agency. A 
final decision granting or refusing the authorisation shall be taken in 
accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 133(3). 
9. 
Summaries of the Commission decisions, including the authoris­
ation number and the reasons for the decision, in particular where 
suitable alternatives exist, shall be published in the Official Journal of 
the European Union and shall be made publicly available in a database 
established and kept up to date by the Agency. 
10. 
In cases covered by Article 63(2), the deadline set out in 
paragraph 1 of this Article shall be shortened to five months. 
CHAPTER 3 
Authorisations in the supply chain 
Article 65 
Obligation of holders of authorisations 
Holders of an authorisation, as well as downstream users referred to in 
Article 56(2) including the substances in a ►M3 mixture ◄, shall 
include the authorisation number on the label before they place the 
substance or a ►M3 mixture ◄ containing the substance on the market 
for an authorised use without prejudice to ►M3 Directive 67/548/EEC and 
Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 ◄ ►M3 __________ ◄. This shall be 
done without delay once the authorisation number has been made publicly 
available in accordance with Article 64(9). 
Article 66 
Downstream users 
1. 
Downstream users using a substance in accordance with 
Article 56(2) shall notify the Agency within three months of the first 
supply of the substance. 
2. 
The Agency shall establish and keep up to date a register of 
downstream users who have made a notification in accordance with 
paragraph 1. The Agency shall grant access to this register to the 
competent authorities of the Member States. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 68 
TITLE VIII 
RESTRICTIONS ON THE MANUFACTURING, PLACING ON THE 
MARKET AND USE OF CERTAIN DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES, 
►M3 MIXTURES ◄ AND ARTICLES 
CHAPTER 1 
General issues 
Article 67 
General provisions 
1. 
A substance on its own, in a ►M3 mixture ◄ or in an article, for 
which Annex XVII contains a restriction shall not be manufactured, 
placed on the market or used unless it complies with the conditions 
of that restriction. This shall not apply to the manufacture, placing on 
the market or use of a substance in scientific research and development. 
Annex XVII shall specify if the restriction shall not apply to product 
and process orientated research and development, as well as the 
maximum quantity exempted. 
2. 
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to the use of substances in cosmetic 
products, as defined by Directive 76/768/EEC, with regard to 
restrictions addressing the risks to human health within the scope of 
that Directive. 
3. 
Until 1 June 2013, a Member State may maintain any existing and 
more stringent restrictions in relation to Annex XVII on the manu­
facture, placing on the market or use of a substance, provided that 
those restrictions have been notified according to the Treaty. The 
Commission shall compile and publish an inventory of these restrictions 
by 1 June 2009. 
CHAPTER 2 
Restrictions process 
Article 68 
Introducing new and amending current restrictions 
1. 
When there is an unacceptable risk to human health or the 
environment, arising from the manufacture, use or placing on the 
market of substances, which needs to be addr