cordance with Directive 1999/45/EC. However, 
until 1 June 2015, where substances or mixtures are both classified and 
labelled in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 that clas­
sification shall be provided in the safety data sheet, together with the 
classification 
in 
accordance 
with 
Directives 
67/548/EEC 
and 
1999/45/EC respectively, for the substance, the mixture and its consti­
tuents. 
▼C1 
Article 32 
Duty to communicate information down the supply chain for 
substances on their own or in ►M3 mixtures ◄ for which a 
safety data sheet is not required 
1. 
Any supplier of a substance on its own or in a ►M3 mixture ◄ 
who does not have to supply a safety data sheet in accordance with 
Article 31 shall provide the recipient with the following information: 
(a) the registration number(s) referred to in Article 20(3), if available, 
for any substances for which information is communicated under 
points (b), (c) or (d) of this paragraph; 
(b) if the substance is subject to authorisation and details of any auth­
orisation granted or denied under Title VII in this supply chain; 
(c) details of any restriction imposed under Title VIII; 
(d) any other available and relevant information about the substance 
that is necessary to enable appropriate risk management measures 
to be identified and applied including specific conditions resulting 
from the application of Section 3 of Annex XI. 
2. 
The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be communicated 
free of charge on paper or electronically at the latest at the time of the 
first delivery of a substance on its own or in a ►M3 mixture ◄ after 
1 June 2007. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 43 
3. 
Suppliers shall update this information without delay on the 
following occasions: 
(a) as soon as new information which may affect the risk management 
measures, or new information on hazards becomes available; 
(b) once an authorisation has been granted or refused; 
(c) once a restriction has been imposed. 
In addition, the updated information shall be provided free of charge on 
paper or electronically to all former recipients to whom they have 
supplied the substance or ►M3 mixture ◄ within the preceding 12 
months. Any updates following registration shall include the registration 
number. 
Article 33 
Duty to communicate information on substances in articles 
1. 
Any supplier of an article containing a substance meeting the 
criteria in Article 57 and identified in accordance with Article 59(1) 
in a concentration above 0,1 % weight by weight (w/w) shall provide 
the recipient of the article with sufficient information, available to the 
supplier, to allow safe use of the article including, as a minimum, the 
name of that substance. 
2. 
On request by a consumer any supplier of an article containing a 
substance meeting the criteria in Article 57 and identified in accordance 
with Article 59(1) in a concentration above 0,1 % weight by weight 
(w/w) shall provide the consumer with sufficient information, available 
to the supplier, to allow safe use of the article including, as a minimum, 
the name of that substance. 
The relevant information shall be provided, free of charge, within 45 
days of receipt of the request. 
Article 34 
Duty 
to 
communicate 
information 
on 
substances 
and 
►M3 mixtures ◄ up the supply chain 
Any actor in the supply chain of a substance or a ►M3 mixture ◄ 
shall communicate the following information to the next actor or 
distributor up the supply chain: 
(a) new information on hazardous properties, regardless of the uses 
concerned; 
(b) any other information that might call into question the appropri­
ateness of the risk management measures identified in a safety 
data sheet supplied to him, which shall be communicated only for 
identified uses. 
Distributors shall pass on that information to the next actor or 
distributor up the supply chain. 
Article 35 
Access to information for workers 
Workers and their representatives shall be granted access by their 
employer to the information provided in accordance with Articles 31 
and 32 in relation to substances or ►M3 mixtures ◄ that they use or 
may be exposed to in the course of their work. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 44 
Article 36 
Obligation to keep information 
1. 
Each manufacturer, importer, downstream user and distributor 
shall assemble and keep available all the information he requires to 
carry out his duties under this Regulation for a period of at least 10 
years after he last manufactured, imported, supplied or used the 
substance or ►M3 mixture ◄. That manufacturer, importer, down­
stream user or distributor shall submit this information or make it 
available without delay upon request to any competent authority of 
the Member State in which he is established or to the Agency, 
without prejudice to Titles II and VI. 
2. 
In the event of a registrant, downstream user or distributor ceasing 
activity, or transferring part or all of his operations to a third party, the 
party responsible for liquidating the registrant, downstream user or 
distributor's undertaking or assuming responsibility for the placing on 
the market of the substance or ►M3 mixture ◄ concerned shall be 
bound by the obligation in paragraph 1 in place of the registrant, down­
stream user or distributor. 
TITLE V 
DOWNSTREAM USERS 
Article 37 
Downstream user chemical safety assessments and duty to identify, 
apply and recommend risk reduction measures 
1. 
A downstream user or distributor may provide information to 
assist in the preparation of a registration. 
2. 
Any downstream user shall have the right to make a use, as a 
minimum the brief general description of use, known in writing (on 
paper or electronically) to the manufacturer, importer, downstream 
user or distributor who supplies him with a substance on its own or 
in a ►M3 mixture ◄ with the aim of making this an identified use. In 
making a use known, he shall provide sufficient information to allow the 
manufacturer, importer or downstream user who has supplied the 
substance, to prepare an exposure scenario, or if appropriate a use and 
exposure category, for his use in the manufacturer, importer or down­
stream user's chemical safety assessment. 
Distributors shall pass on such information to the next actor or 
distributor up the supply chain. Downstream users in receipt of such 
information may prepare an exposure scenario for the identified use(s), 
or pass the information to the next actor up the supply chain. 
3. 
For registered substances, the manufacturer, importer or down­
stream user shall comply with the obligations laid down in Article 14 
either before he next supplies the substance on its own or in a 
►M3 mixture ◄ to the downstream user making the request referred 
to in paragraph 2 of this Article, provided that the request was made at 
least one month before the supply, or within one month after the 
request, whichever is the later. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 45 
For phase-in substances, the manufacturer, importer or downstream user 
shall comply with this request and with the obligations laid down in 
Article 14 before the relevant deadline in Article 23 has expired, 
provided that the downstream user makes his request at least 12 
months before the deadline in question. 
Where the manufacturer, importer or downstream user, having assessed 
the use in accordance with Article 14, is unable to include it as an 
identified use for reasons of protection of human health or the 
environment, he shall provide the Agency and the downstream user 
with the reason(s) for that decision in writing without delay and shall 
not supply downstream user(s) with the substance without including 
these reason(s) in the information referred to under Articles 31 or 32. 
The manufacturer or importer shall include this use in Section 3.7 of 
Annex VI in his update of the registration in accordance with 
Article 22(1)(d). 
4. 
A downstream user of a substance on its own or in a 
►M3 mixture ◄ shall prepare a chemical safety report in accordance 
with Annex XII for any use outside the conditions described in an 
exposure scenario or if appropriate a use and exposure category 
communicated to him in a safety data sheet or for any use his 
supplier advises against. 
A downstream user need not prepare such a chemical safety report in 
any of the following cases: 
(a) a safety data sheet is not required to be communicated with the 
substance or ►M3 mixture ◄ in accordance with Article 31; 
(b) a chemical safety report is not required to be completed by his 
supplier in accordance with Article 14; 
(c) the downstream user uses the substance or ►M3 mixture ◄ in a 
total quantity of less than one tonne per year; 
(d) the downstream user implements or recommends an exposure 
scenario which includes as a minimum the conditions described in 
the exposure scenario communicated to him in the safety data sheet; 
(e) the substance is present in a ►M3 mixture ◄ in a concentration 
lower than any of the concentrations set out in Article 14(2); 
(f) the downstream user is using the substance for the purposes of 
product and process oriented research and development, provided 
that the risks to human health and the environment are adequately 
controlled in accordance with the requirements of legislation for the 
protection of workers and the environment. 
5. 
Any downstream user shall identify, apply and where suitable, 
recommend, appropriate measures to adequately control risks identified 
in any of the following: 
(a) the safety data sheet(s) supplied to him; 
(b) his own chemical safety assessment; 
(c) any information on risk management measures supplied to him in 
accordance with Article 32. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 46 
6. 
Where a downstream user does not prepare a chemical safety 
report in accordance with paragraph 4(c), he shall consider the use(s) 
of the su