combustion plants of mineral oil 
products and use as fuels in closed systems. 
5. 
In the case of substances that are subject to authorisation only 
because they meet the criteria in Article 57(a), (b) or (c) or because 
they are identified in accordance with Article 57(f) only because of 
hazards to human health, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not 
apply to the following uses: 
(a) uses in cosmetic products within the scope of Directive 
76/768/EEC; 
(b) uses in food contact materials within the scope of Regulation (EC) 
No 1935/2004. 
6. 
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the use of substances when 
they are present in ►M3 mixtures ◄: 
(a) for substances referred to in Article 57(d), (e) and (f), below a 
concentration limit of 0,1 % weight by weight (w/w); 
▼C1 
( 1 ) OJ L 350, 28.12.1998, p. 58. Directive as amended by Regulation (EC) No 
1882/2003.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 58 
(b) for all other substances, below the values specified in Article 11(3) 
of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 which result in the classification 
of the mixture as hazardous. 
▼C1 
Article 57 
Substances to be included in Annex XIV 
The following substances may be included in Annex XIV in accordance 
with the procedure laid down in Article 58: 
▼M3 
(a) substances meeting the criteria for classification in the hazard class 
carcinogenicity category 1A or 1B in accordance with section 3.6 of 
Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008; 
(b) substances meeting the criteria for classification in the hazard class 
germ cell mutagenicity category 1A or 1B in accordance with 
section 3.5 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008; 
(c) substances meeting the criteria for classification in the hazard class 
reproductive toxicity category 1A or 1B, adverse effects on sexual 
function and fertility or on development in accordance with section 
3.7 of Annex I to Regulation(EC) No 1272/2008; 
▼C1 
(d) substances which are persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic in 
accordance with the criteria set out in Annex XIII of this Regu­
lation; 
(e) substances which are very persistent and very bioaccumulative in 
accordance with the criteria set out in Annex XIII of this Regu­
lation; 
(f) substances — such as those having endocrine disrupting properties 
or those having persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic properties or 
very persistent and very bioaccumulative properties, which do not 
fulfil the criteria of points (d) or (e) — for which there is scientific 
evidence of probable serious effects to human health or the envi­
ronment which give rise to an equivalent level of concern to those 
of other substances listed in points (a) to (e) and which are 
identified on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the 
procedure set out in Article 59. 
Article 58 
Inclusion of substances in Annex XIV 
1. 
Whenever a decision is taken to include in Annex XIV substances 
referred to in Article 57, such a decision shall be taken in accordance 
with the procedure referred to in Article 133(4). It shall specify for each 
substance: 
(a) the identity of the substance as specified in Section 2 of Annex VI; 
(b) the intrinsic property (properties) of the substance referred to in 
Article 57; 
▼M3

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 59 
(c) transitional arrangements: 
(i) the date(s) from which the placing on the market and the use of 
the substance shall be prohibited unless an authorisation is 
granted (hereinafter referred to as the sunset date) which 
should take into account, where appropriate, the production 
cycle specified for that use; 
(ii) a date or dates at least 18 months before the sunset date(s) by 
which applications must be received if the applicant wishes to 
continue to use the substance or place it on the market for 
certain uses after the sunset date(s); these continued uses shall 
be allowed after the sunset date until a decision on the appli­
cation for authorisation is taken; 
(d) review periods for certain uses, if appropriate; 
(e) uses or categories of uses exempted from the authorisation 
requirement, if any, and conditions for such exemptions, if any. 
2. 
Uses or categories of uses may be exempted from the authoris­
ation requirement provided that, on the basis of the existing specific 
Community legislation imposing minimum requirements relating to the 
protection of human health or the environment for the use of the 
substance, the risk is properly controlled. In the establishment of such 
exemptions, account shall be taken, in particular, of the proportionality 
of risk to human health and the environment related to the nature of the 
substance, such as where the risk is modified by the physical form. 
3. 
Prior to a decision to include substances in Annex XIV, the 
Agency shall, taking into account the opinion of the Member State 
Committee, recommend priority substances to be included specifying 
for each substance the items set out in paragraph 1. Priority shall 
normally be given to substances with: 
(a) PBT or vPvB properties; or 
(b) wide dispersive use; or 
(c) high volumes. 
The number of substances included in Annex XIV and the dates 
specified under paragraph 1 shall also take account of the Agency's 
capacity to handle applications in the time provided for. The Agency 
shall make its first recommendation of priority substances to be included 
in Annex XIV by 1 June 2009. The Agency shall make further recom­
mendations at least every second year with a view to including further 
substances in Annex XIV. 
4. 
Before the Agency sends its recommendation to the Commission it 
shall make it publicly available on its website, clearly indicating the 
date of publication, taking into account Articles 118 and 119 on access 
to information. The Agency shall invite all interested parties to submit 
comments within three months of the date of publication, in particular 
on uses which should be exempt from the authorisation requirement. 
The Agency shall update its recommendation, taking into account the 
comments received. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 60 
5. 
Subject to paragraph 6, after inclusion of a substance in Annex 
XIV, this substance shall not be subjected to new restrictions under the 
procedure outlined in Title VIII covering the risks to human health or 
the environment from the use of the substance on its own, in a 
►M3 mixture ◄ or incorporation of a substance in an article arising 
from the intrinsic properties specified in Annex XIV. 
6. 
A substance listed in Annex XIV may be subjected to new 
restrictions under the procedure outlined in Title VIII covering the 
risks to human health or the environment from the presence of the 
substance in (an) article(s). 
7. 
Substances for which all uses have been prohibited under Title 
VIII or by other Community legislation shall not be included in Annex 
XIV or shall be removed from it. 
8. 
Substances which as a result of new information no longer meet 
the criteria of Article 57 shall be removed from Annex XIV in 
accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 133(4). 
Article 59 
Identification of substances referred to in Article 57 
1. 
The procedure set out in paragraphs 2 to 10 of this Article shall 
apply for the purpose of identifying substances meeting the criteria 
referred to in Article 57 and establishing a candidate list for eventual 
inclusion in Annex XIV. The Agency shall indicate, within this list, the 
substances that are on its work programme according to Article 83(3)(e). 
2. 
The Commission may ask the Agency to prepare a dossier in 
accordance with relevant Sections of Annex XV for substances which 
in its opinion meet the criteria set out in Article 57. ►M3 The dossier 
may be limited, if appropriate, to a reference to an entry in Part 3 of 
Annex VI to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008. ◄ The Agency shall 
make this dossier available to the Member States. 
3. 
Any Member State may prepare a dossier in accordance with 
Annex XV for substances which in its opinion meet the criteria set 
out in Article 57 and forward it to the Agency. ►M3 The dossier 
may be limited, if appropriate, to a reference to an entry in Part 3 of 
Annex VI to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008. ◄ The Agency shall 
make this dossier available within 30 days of receipt to the other 
Member States. 
4. 
The Agency shall publish on its website a notice that an Annex 
XV dossier has been prepared for a substance. The Agency shall invite 
all interested parties to submit comments within a specified deadline to 
the Agency. 
5. 
Within 60 days of circulation, the other Member States or the 
Agency may comment on the identification of the substance in 
relation to the criteria in Article 57 in the dossier to the Agency. 
6. 
If the Agency does not receive or make any comments, it shall 
include this substance on the list referred to in paragraph 1. The Agency 
may include this substance in its recommendations under Article 58(3). 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 61 
7. 
When comments are made or received, the Agency shall refer the 
dossier to the Member State Committee within 15 days of the end of the 
60-day period referred to in paragraph 5. 
8. 
If, within 30 days of the referral, the Member State Committee 
reaches a unanimous agreement on the identification, the Agency shall 
include the substance in the list referred to in paragraph 1. The Agency 
may include that substance in its recommendations under Article 58(3). 
9. 
If the Member State Committee fails to reach a unanimous 
agreement, the Commission shall prepare a draft proposal on the identi­
fication of the substance within three months of receipt of the opinion of 
the Member State Committee. A final decision on the identification of 
the substance shall be taken in accordance with the procedure referred 
to in Article 133(3). 
10. 
The Agency shall publish and update the list referred to in 
paragraph 1 on its website without delay after a decision on inclus