ds an overall assessment of the validity of all studies should be 
performed. 
3.2. 
Step 2: Classification and Labelling 
▼M51 
3.2.1. 
The appropriate classification developed in accordance with the criteria 
in Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 shall be presented and justified. Any 
M-factor resulting from the application of Article 10 of Regulation (EC) 
No 1272/2008 shall be presented and, if it is not included in Part 3 of 
Annex VI to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008, justified. 
The presentation and justification is applied to all nanoforms covered by 
the registration. 
3.2.2. 
If the information is inadequate to decide whether a substance or, when 
applicable, nanoforms thereof should be classified for a particular hazard 
class or category, the registrant shall indicate and justify the action or 
decision he has taken as a result. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 110 
3.3. 
Step 3: Identification of the PNEC 
3.3.1. 
Based on the available information, the PNEC for each environmental 
sphere shall be established. The PNEC may be calculated by applying 
an appropriate assessment factor to the effect values (e.g. LC50 or 
NOEC). An assessment factor expresses the difference between effects 
values derived for a limited number of species from laboratory tests and 
the PNEC for the environmental sphere ( 1 ). 
3.3.2. 
If it is not possible to derive the PNEC, then this shall be clearly stated 
and fully justified. 
4. 
PBT AND VPVB ASSESSMENT 
4.0. 
Introduction 
4.0.1. 
The objective of the PBT and vPvB assessment shall be to determine if 
the substance fulfils the criteria given in Annex XIII and if so, to 
characterise the potential emissions of the substance. A hazard 
assessment in accordance with Sections 1 and 3 of this Annex 
addressing all the long-term effects and the estimation of the long- 
term exposure of humans and the environment as carried out in 
accordance with Section 5 (Exposure Assessment), step 2 (Exposure 
Estimation), cannot be carried out with sufficient reliability for 
substances satisfying the PBT and vPvB criteria in Annex XIII. 
Therefore, a separate PBT and vPvB assessment is required. 
▼M51 
4.0.2. 
The PBT and vPvB assessment shall comprise the following two steps, 
which shall be clearly identified as such in Part B, Section 8 of the 
Chemical Safety report. The assessment shall address all nanoforms that 
are covered by the registration: 
Step 1 : 
Comparison with the Criteria. 
Step 2 : 
Emission Characterisation. 
The assessment shall also be summarised in the Safety Data Sheet under 
heading 12. 
▼M10 
4.1. 
Step 1: Comparison with the criteria 
This part of the PBT and vPvB assessment shall entail the comparison 
of the available information with the criteria given in Section 1 of 
Annex XIII and a statement of whether the substance fulfils or does 
not fulfil the criteria. The assessment shall be conducted in accordance 
with the provisions laid down in the introductory part of Annex XIII as 
well as Sections 2 and 3 of that Annex. 
▼M51 
4.2. 
Step 2: Emission Characterisation 
If the substance fulfils the criteria or it is considered as if it is a PBT or 
vPvB in the registration dossier an emission characterisation shall be 
conducted comprising the relevant parts of the exposure assessment as 
described in Section 5. In particular it shall contain an estimation of the 
amounts of the substance released to the different environmental 
compartments during all activities carried out by the manufacturer or 
importer and all identified uses, and an identification of the likely routes 
by which humans and the environment are exposed to the substance. 
The estimation shall address all nanoforms that are covered by the 
registration. 
▼C1 
( 1 ) In general, the more extensive the data and the longer the duration of the tests, the 
smaller is the degree of uncertainty and the size of the assessment factor. An assessment 
factor of 1 000 is typically applied to the lowest of three short term L(E)C50 values 
derived from species representing different trophic levels and a factor of 10 to the lowest 
of three long-term NOEC values derived from species representing different trophic 
levels.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 111 
5. 
EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT 
5.0. 
Introduction 
▼M51 
The objective of the exposure assessment shall be to make a quantitative 
and qualitative estimate of the dose/concentration of the substance to 
which humans and the environment are or may be exposed. The 
assessment shall consider all stages of the life-cycle of the substance 
resulting from the manufacture and identified uses and shall cover any 
exposures that may relate to the hazards identified in Sections 1 to 4. 
The assessment shall address all nanoforms that are covered by the 
registration. The exposure assessment shall entail the following two 
steps, which shall be clearly identified as such in the Chemical Safety 
Report: 
▼C1 
Step 1: Generation of exposure scenario(s) or the generation of relevant 
use and exposure categories. 
Step 2: Exposure Estimation. 
Where required and in accordance with Article 31, the exposure scenario 
shall also be included in an annex to the Safety Data Sheet. 
5.1. 
Step 1: Development of exposure scenarios 
5.1.1. Exposure scenarios as described in Sections 0.7 and 0.8 shall be 
generated. Exposure scenarios are the core of the process to carry out 
a chemical safety assessment. The chemical safety assessment process 
may be iterative. The first assessment will be based on the required 
minimum and all available hazard information and on the exposure esti­
mation that corresponds to the initial assumptions about the operating 
conditions and risk management measures (an initial exposure scenario). 
If the initial assumptions lead to a risk characterisation indicating that 
risks to human health and the environment are not adequately controlled, 
then it is necessary to carry out an iterative process with amendment of 
one or a number of factors in hazard or exposure assessment with the aim 
to demonstrate adequate control. The refinement of hazard assessment 
may require generation of additional hazard information. The refinement 
of exposure assessment may involve appropriate alteration of the opera­
tional conditions or risk management measures in the exposure scenario 
or more precise exposure estimation. The exposure scenario, resulting 
from the final iteration (a final exposure scenario), shall be included in 
the chemical safety report and attached to the safety data sheet in 
accordance with Article 31. 
The final exposure scenario shall be presented under the relevant heading 
of the chemical safety report, and included in an annex to the safety data 
sheet, using an appropriate short title giving a brief general description of 
the use, consistent with those given in Section 3.5 of Annex VI. 
Exposure scenarios shall cover any manufacture in the Community and 
all identified uses. 
In particular, an exposure scenario includes, where relevant, a description 
of: 
Operational conditions 
— the processes involved, including the physical form in which the 
substance is manufactured, processed and/or used, 
— the activities of workers related to the processes and the duration and 
frequency of their exposure to the substance, 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 112 
— the activities of consumers and the duration and frequency of their 
exposure to the substance, 
— the duration and frequency of emissions of the substance to the 
different environmental compartments and sewage treatment systems 
and the dilution in the receiving environmental compartment. 
Risk management measures 
— the risk management measures to reduce or avoid direct and indirect 
exposure of humans (including workers and consumers) and the 
different environmental compartments to the substance, 
— the waste management measures to reduce or avoid exposure of 
humans and the environment to the substance during waste disposal 
and/or recycling. 
5.1.2. Where a manufacturer, importer or downstream user applies for an appli­
cation for an authorisation for a specific use, exposure scenarios need 
only be developed for that use and the subsequent life-cycle steps. 
5.2. 
Step 2: Exposure Estimation 
5.2.1. The exposure shall be estimated for each exposure scenario developed 
and shall be presented under the relevant heading of the Chemical Safety 
Report and where required and in accordance with Article 31, 
summarised in an annex to the safety data sheet. The exposure estimation 
entails three elements: (1) emission estimation; (2) assessment of 
chemical fate and pathways; and (3) estimation of exposure levels. 
5.2.2. The emission estimation shall consider the emissions during all relevant 
parts of the life-cycle of the substance resulting from the manufacture and 
each of the identified uses. The life-cycle stages resulting from the manu­
facture of the substance cover, where relevant, the waste stage. The life- 
cycle stages resulting from identified uses cover, where relevant, the 
service-life of articles and the waste stage. The emission estimation 
shall be performed under the assumption that the risk management 
measures and operational conditions described in the exposure scenario 
have been implemented. ►M51 When nanoforms are covered by the 
registration, the emission estimation for these shall, where relevant, 
take account of situations when the conditions outlined in Annex XI 
section 3.2 point (c) are fulfilled. ◄ 
▼M51 
5.2.3. A characterisation of possible degradation, transformation, or reaction 
processes, and an estimation of environmental distribution and fate 
shall be performed. 
When nanoforms are covered by the registration, a characterisation of the 
dissolution rate, the particle aggregation, the agglomeration and of the 
particle surface chemistry changes shall be included. 
▼C1 
5.2.4. An estimation of the exposure lev