onal user, or a 
distributor, being supplied with an article but does not include 
consumers; 
36. SME: means small and medium-sized enterprises as defined in the 
Commission Recommendation of 6 May 2003 concerning the defi­
nition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( 1 ); 
37. exposure scenario: means the set of conditions, including operation­
al conditions and risk management measures, that describe how the 
substance is manufactured or used during its life-cycle and how the 
manufacturer or importer controls, or recommends downstream 
users to control, exposures of humans and the environment. 
These exposure scenarios may cover one specific process or use 
or several processes or uses as appropriate; 
38. use and exposure category: means an exposure scenario covering a 
wide range of processes or uses, where the processes or uses are 
communicated, as a minimum, in terms of the brief general 
description of use; 
39. substances which occur in nature: means a naturally occurring 
substance as such, unprocessed or processed only by manual, mech­
anical or gravitational means, by dissolution in water, by flotation, 
by extraction with water, by steam distillation or by heating solely 
to remove water, or which is extracted from air by any means; 
40. not chemically modified substance: means a substance whose 
chemical structure remains unchanged, even if it has undergone a 
chemical process or treatment, or a physical mineralogical trans­
formation, for instance to remove impurities; 
▼C1 
( 1 ) OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 15 
41. alloy: means a metallic material, homogenous on a macroscopic 
scale, consisting of two or more elements so combined that they 
cannot be readily separated by mechanical means. 
Article 4 
General provision 
Any manufacturer, importer, or where relevant downstream user, may, 
whilst retaining full responsibility for complying with his obligations 
under this Regulation, appoint a third party representative for all 
proceedings under Article 11, Article 19, Title III and Article 53 
involving discussions with other manufacturers, importers, or where 
relevant downstream users. In these cases, the identity of a manufacturer 
or importer or downstream user who has appointed a representative shall 
not normally be disclosed by the Agency to other manufacturers, 
importers, or, where relevant, downstream users. 
TITLE II 
REGISTRATION OF SUBSTANCES 
CHAPTER 1 
General obligation to register and information requirements 
Article 5 
No data, no market 
Subject to Articles 6, 7, 21 and 23, substances on their own, in 
►M3 mixtures ◄ or in articles shall not be manufactured in the 
Community or placed on the market unless they have been registered 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Title where this is 
required. 
Article 6 
General obligation to register substances on their own or in 
►M3 mixtures ◄ 
1. 
Save where this Regulation provides otherwise, any manufacturer 
or importer of a substance, either on its own or in one or more 
►M3 mixture ◄ (s), in quantities of one tonne or more per year 
shall submit a registration to the Agency. 
2. 
For monomers that are used as on-site isolated intermediates or 
transported isolated intermediates, Articles 17 and 18 shall not apply. 
3. 
Any manufacturer or importer of a polymer shall submit a regis­
tration to the Agency for the monomer substance(s) or any other 
substance(s), that have not already been registered by an actor up the 
supply chain, if both the following conditions are met: 
(a) the polymer consists of 2 % weight by weight (w/w) or more of 
such monomer substance(s) or other substance(s) in the form of 
monomeric units and chemically bound substance(s); 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 16 
(b) the total quantity of such monomer substance(s) or other substance(s) 
makes up one tonne or more per year. 
4. 
A submission for registration shall be accompanied by the fee 
required in accordance with Title IX. 
Article 7 
Registration and notification of substances in articles 
1. 
Any producer or importer of articles shall submit a registration to 
the Agency for any substance contained in those articles, if both the 
following conditions are met: 
(a) the substance is present in those articles in quantities totalling over 
one tonne per producer or importer per year; 
(b) the substance is intended to be released under normal or reasonably 
foreseeable conditions of use. 
A submission for registration shall be accompanied by the fee required 
in accordance with Title IX. 
2. 
Any producer or importer of articles shall notify the Agency, in 
accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article, if a substance meets the 
criteria in Article 57 and is identified in accordance with Article 59(1), 
if both the following conditions are met: 
(a) the substance is present in those articles in quantities totalling over 
one tonne per producer or importer per year; 
(b) the substance is present in those articles above a concentration of 
0,1 % weight by weight (w/w). 
3. 
Paragraph 2 shall not apply where the producer or importer can 
exclude exposure to humans or the environment during normal or 
reasonably foreseeable conditions of use including disposal. In such 
cases, the producer or importer shall supply appropriate instructions to 
the recipient of the article. 
4. 
The information to be notified shall include the following: 
(a) the identity and contact details of the producer or importer as 
specified in section 1 of Annex VI, with the exception of their 
own use sites; 
(b) the registration number(s) referred to in Article 20(1), if available; 
(c) the identity of the substance as specified in sections 2.1 to 2.3.4 of 
Annex VI; 
(d) the classification of the substance(s) as specified in sections 4.1 and 
4.2 of Annex VI; 
(e) a brief description of the use(s) of the substance(s) in the article as 
specified in section 3.5 of Annex VI and of the uses of the 
article(s); 
(f) the tonnage range of the substance(s), such as 1 to 10 tonnes, 10 to 
100 tonnes and so on. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 17 
5. 
The Agency may take decisions requiring producers or importers 
of articles to submit a registration, in accordance with this Title, for any 
substance in those articles, if all the following conditions are met: 
(a) the substance is present in those articles in quantities totalling over 
one tonne per producer or importer per year; 
(b) the Agency has grounds for suspecting that: 
(i) the substance is released from the articles, and 
(ii) the release of the substance from the articles presents a risk to 
human health or the environment; 
(c) the substance is not subject to paragraph 1. 
A submission for registration shall be accompanied by the fee required 
in accordance with Title IX. 
6. 
Paragraphs 1 to 5 shall not apply to substances that have already 
been registered for that use. 
7. 
From 1 June 2011 paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Article shall apply 
six months after a substance is identified in accordance with 
Article 59(1). 
8. 
Any measures for the implementation of paragraphs 1 to 7 shall be 
adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 133(3). 
Article 8 
Only representative of a non-Community manufacturer 
1. 
A natural or legal person established outside the Community who 
manufactures a substance on its own, in ►M3 mixtures ◄ or in 
articles, formulates a ►M3 mixture ◄ or produces an article that is 
imported into the Community may by mutual agreement appoint a 
natural or legal person established in the Community to fulfil, as his 
only representative, the obligations on importers under this Title. 
2. 
The representative shall also comply with all other obligations of 
importers under this Regulation. To this end, he shall have a sufficient 
background in the practical handling of substances and the information 
related to them and, without prejudice to Article 36, shall keep available 
and up-to-date information on quantities imported and customers sold 
to, as well as information on the supply of the latest update of the safety 
data sheet referred to in Article 31. 
3. 
If a representative is appointed in accordance with paragraphs 1 
and 2, the non-Community manufacturer shall inform the importer(s) 
within the same supply chain of the appointment. These importers shall 
be regarded as downstream users for the purposes of this Regulation. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 18 
Article 9 
Exemption from the general obligation to register for product and 
process orientated research and development (PPORD) 
1. 
Articles 5, 6, 7, 17, 18 and 21 shall not apply for a period of five 
years to a substance manufactured in the Community or imported for 
the purposes of product and process orientated research and develop­
ment by a manufacturer or importer or producer of articles, by himself 
or in cooperation with listed customers and in a quantity which is 
limited to the purpose of product and process orientated research and 
development. 
2. 
For the purpose of paragraph 1, the manufacturer or importer or 
producer of articles shall notify the Agency of the following 
information: 
(a) the identity of the manufacturer or importer or producer of articles 
as specified in section 1 of Annex VI; 
(b) the identity of the substance, as specified in section 2 of Annex VI; 
(c) the classification of the substance as specified in section 4 of Annex 
VI, if any; 
(d) the estimated quantity as specified in section 3.1 of Annex VI; 
(e) the list of customers referred to in paragraph 1, including their 
names and addresses. 
The notification shall be accompanied by the fee required in accordance 
with Title IX. 
The period set out in paragraph 1 shall begin at receipt of the notifi­
cation at the Agency. 
3. 
The Agency shall check the completeness of the information 
supplied by the notifier and Article 20