
substance that has been registered in accordance with Title II is 
available to the establishment undertaking the recovery. 
8. 
On-site isolated intermediates and transported isolated inter­
mediates shall be exempted from: 
(a) Chapter 1 of Title II, with the exception of Articles 8 and 9; and 
(b) Title VII. 
9. 
The provisions of Titles II and VI shall not apply to polymers. 
CHAPTER 2 
Definitions and general provision 
Article 3 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Regulation: 
1. substance: means a chemical element and its compounds in the 
natural state or obtained by any manufacturing process, including 
any additive necessary to preserve its stability and any impurity 
deriving from the process used, but excluding any solvent which 
may be separated without affecting the stability of the substance or 
changing its composition; 
2. ►M3 mixture ◄: means a mixture or solution composed of two or 
more substances; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 11 
3. article: means an object which during production is given a special 
shape, surface or design which determines its function to a greater 
degree than does its chemical composition; 
4. producer of an article: means any natural or legal person who 
makes or assembles an article within the Community; 
5. polymer: means a substance consisting of molecules characterised 
by the sequence of one or more types of monomer units. Such 
molecules must be distributed over a range of molecular weights 
wherein differences in the molecular weight are primarily attribu­
table to differences in the number of monomer units. A polymer 
comprises the following: 
(a) a simple weight majority of molecules containing at least three 
monomer units which are covalently bound to at least one other 
monomer unit or other reactant; 
(b) less than a simple weight majority of molecules of the same 
molecular weight. 
In the context of this definition a ‘monomer unit’ means the reacted 
form of a monomer substance in a polymer; 
6. monomer: means a substance which is capable of forming covalent 
bonds with a sequence of additional like or unlike molecules under 
the conditions of the relevant polymer-forming reaction used for the 
particular process; 
7. registrant: means the manufacturer or the importer of a substance or 
the producer or importer of an article submitting a registration for a 
substance; 
8. manufacturing: means production or extraction of substances in the 
natural state; 
9. manufacturer: means any natural or legal person established within 
the Community who manufactures a substance within the 
Community; 
10. import: means the physical introduction into the customs territory of 
the Community; 
11. importer: means any natural or legal person established within the 
Community who is responsible for import; 
12. placing on the market: means supplying or making available, 
whether in return for payment or free of charge, to a third party. 
Import shall be deemed to be placing on the market; 
13. downstream user: means any natural or legal person established 
within the Community, other than the manufacturer or the 
importer, who uses a substance, either on its own or in a 
►M3 mixture ◄, in the course of his industrial or professional 
activities. A distributor or a consumer is not a downstream user. 
A re-importer exempted pursuant to Article 2(7)(c) shall be 
regarded as a downstream user; 
14. distributor: means any natural or legal person established within the 
Community, including a retailer, who only stores and places on the 
market a substance, on its own or in a ►M3 mixture ◄, for third 
parties; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 12 
15. intermediate: means a substance that is manufactured for and 
consumed in or used for chemical processing in order to be trans­
formed into another substance (hereinafter referred to as synthesis): 
(a) non-isolated intermediate: means an intermediate that during 
synthesis is not intentionally removed (except for sampling) 
from the equipment in which the synthesis takes place. Such 
equipment includes the reaction vessel, its ancillary equipment, 
and any equipment through which the substance(s) pass(es) 
during a continuous flow or batch process as well as the 
pipework for transfer from one vessel to another for the 
purpose of the next reaction step, but it excludes tanks or 
other vessels in which the substance(s) are stored after the 
manufacture; 
(b) on-site isolated intermediate: means an intermediate not meeting 
the criteria of a non-isolated intermediate and where the manu­
facture of the intermediate and the synthesis of (an)other 
substance(s) from that intermediate take place on the same 
site, operated by one or more legal entities; 
(c) transported isolated intermediate: means an intermediate not 
meeting the criteria of a non-isolated intermediate and trans­
ported between or supplied to other sites; 
16. site: means a single location, in which, if there is more than one 
manufacturer of (a) substance(s), certain infrastructure and facilities 
are shared; 
17. actors in the supply chain: means all manufacturers and/or importers 
and/or downstream users in a supply chain; 
18. Agency: means the European Chemicals Agency as established by 
this Regulation; 
19. competent authority: means the authority or authorities or bodies 
established by the Member States to carry out the obligations 
arising from this Regulation; 
20. phase-in substance: means a substance which meets at least one of 
the following criteria: 
(a) it is listed in the European Inventory of Existing Commercial 
Chemical Substances (EINECS); 
▼M23 
(b) it was manufactured in the Community, or in the countries 
acceding to the European Union on 1 January 1995, on 
1 May 2004, on 1 January 2007 or on 1 July 2013, but not 
placed on the market by the manufacturer or importer, at least 
once in the 15 years before the entry into force of this Regu­
lation, provided the manufacturer or importer has documentary 
evidence of this; 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 13 
(c) it was placed on the market in the Community, or in the 
countries acceding to the European Union on 1 January 1995, 
on 1 May 2004, on 1 January 2007 or on 1 July 2013, by the 
manufacturer or importer before the entry into force of this 
Regulation and it was considered as having been notified in 
accordance with the first indent of Article 8(1) of Directive 
67/548/EEC in the version of Article 8(1) resulting from the 
amendment effected by Directive 79/831/EEC, but it does not 
meet the definition of a polymer as set out in this Regulation, 
provided the manufacturer or importer has documentary 
evidence of this, including proof that the substance was 
placed on the market by any manufacturer or importer 
between 18 September 1981 and 31 October 1993 inclusive; 
▼C1 
21. notified substance: means a substance for which a notification has 
been submitted and which could be placed on the market in 
accordance with Directive 67/548/EEC; 
22. product and process orientated research and development: means any 
scientific development related to product development or the further 
development of a substance, on its own, in ►M3 mixtures ◄ or 
in articles in the course of which pilot plant or production trials are 
used to develop the production process and/or to test the fields of 
application of the substance; 
23. scientific research and development: means any scientific experi­
mentation, analysis or chemical research carried out under 
controlled conditions in a volume less than one tonne per year; 
24. use: means any processing, formulation, consumption, storage, 
keeping, treatment, filling into containers, transfer from one 
container to another, mixing, production of an article or any other 
utilisation; 
25. registrant's own use: means an industrial or professional use by the 
registrant; 
26. identified use: means a use of a substance on its own or in a 
►M3 mixture ◄, or a use of a ►M3 mixture ◄, that is 
intended by an actor in the supply chain, including his own use, 
or that is made known to him in writing by an immediate down­
stream user; 
27. full study report: means a complete and comprehensive description 
of the activity performed to generate the information. This covers 
the complete scientific paper as published in the literature 
describing the study performed or the full report prepared by the 
test house describing the study performed; 
28. robust study summary: means a detailed summary of the objectives, 
methods, results and conclusions of a full study report providing 
sufficient information to make an independent assessment of the 
study minimising the need to consult the full study report; 
29. study summary: means a summary of the objectives, methods, 
results and conclusions of a full study report providing sufficient 
information to make an assessment of the relevance of the study; 
▼M23

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 14 
30. per year: means per calendar year, unless stated otherwise, for 
phase-in substances that have been imported or manufactured for 
at least three consecutive years, quantities per year shall be 
calculated on the basis of the average production or import 
volumes for the three preceding calendar years; 
31. restriction: means any condition for or prohibition of the manu­
facture, use or placing on the market; 
32. supplier of a substance or a ►M3 mixture ◄: means any manu­
facturer, importer, downstream user or distributor placing on the 
market a substance, on its own or in a ►M3 mixture ◄, or a 
►M3 mixture ◄; 
33. supplier of an article: means any producer or importer of an article, 
distributor or other actor in the supply chain placing an article on 
the market; 
34. recipient of a substance or a ►M3 mixture ◄: means a down­
stream user or a distributor being supplied with a substance or a 
►M3 mixture ◄; 
35. recipient of an article: means an industrial or professi