 market. 
4. Substances which are not themselves manufactured, imported or placed on 
the market and which result from a chemical reaction that occurs when: 
(a) a stabiliser, colorant, flavouring agent, antioxidant, filler, solvent, carrier, 
surfactant, plasticiser, corrosion inhibitor, antifoamer or defoamer, 
dispersant, precipitation inhibitor, desiccant, binder, emulsifier, de-emul­
sifier, dewatering agent, agglomerating agent, adhesion promoter, flow 
modifier, pH neutraliser, sequesterant, coagulant, flocculant, fire 
retardant, lubricant, chelating agent, or quality control reagent 
functions as intended; or 
(b) a substance solely intended to provide a specific physicochemical char­
acteristic functions as intended. 
5. By-products, unless they are imported or placed on the market themselves. 
6. Hydrates of a substance or hydrated ions, formed by association of a 
substance with water, provided that the substance has been registered by 
the manufacturer or importer using this exemption. 
7. The following substances which occur in nature, if they are not chemically 
modified: 
Minerals, ores, ore concentrates, raw and processed natural gas, crude oil, 
coal. 
8. Substances which occur in nature other than those listed under paragraph 7, 
if they are not chemically modified, unless they meet the criteria for clas­
sification as dangerous according to ►M3 Regulation (EC) No 1272/ 
2008 ◄ or unless they are persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic or very 
persistent and very bioaccumulative in accordance with the criteria set out 
in Annex XIII or unless they were identified in accordance with Article 59(1) 
at least two years previously as substances giving rise to an equivalent level 
of concern as set out in Article 57(f). 
9. The following substances obtained from natural sources, if they are not 
chemically modified, unless they meet the criteria for classification as 
dangerous according to Directive 67/548/EEC with the exception of those 
only classified as flammable [R10], as a skin irritant [R38] or as an eye 
irritant [R36] or unless they are persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic or very 
persistent and very bioaccumulative in accordance with the criteria set out in 
Annex XIII or unless they were identified in accordance with Article 59(1) at 
least two years previously as substances giving rise to an equivalent level of 
concern as set out in Article 57(f): 
Vegetable fats, vegetable oils, vegetable waxes; animal fats, animal oils, 
animal waxes; fatty acids from C 6 to C 24 and their potassium, sodium, 
calcium and magnesium salts; glycerol. 
▼M2

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 157 
10. The following substances if they are not chemically modified: 
Liquefied petroleum gas, natural gas condensate, process gases and 
components thereof, coke, cement clinker, magnesia. 
11. The following substances unless they meet the criteria for classification as 
dangerous according to Directive 67/548/EEC and provided that they do not 
contain constituents meeting the criteria as dangerous in accordance with 
Directive 67/548/EEC present in concentrations above the lowest of the 
applicable concentration limits set out in Directive 1999/45/EC or concen­
tration limits set out in Annex I to Directive 67/548/EEC, unless conclusive 
scientific experimental data show that these constituents are not available 
throughout the lifecycle of the substance and those data have been ascer­
tained to be adequate and reliable: 
Glass, ceramic frits. 
▼M55 
12. Compost, biogas and digestate. 
▼M2 
13. Hydrogen and oxygen. 
▼M2

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 158 
ANNEX VI 
INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 10 
▼M51 
NOTE ON FULFILLING THE REQUIREMENTS OF ANNEXES VI TO XI 
Annexes VI to XI specify the information that shall be submitted for registration 
and evaluation purposes according to Articles 10, 12, 13, 40, 41 and 46. For the 
lowest tonnage level, the standard requirements are in Annex VII, and every time 
a new tonnage level is reached, the requirements of the corresponding Annex 
have to be added. For each registration the precise information requirements will 
differ, according to tonnage, use, and exposure. The Annexes shall thus be 
considered as a whole, and in conjunction with the overall requirements of 
registration, evaluation and the duty of care. 
A substance is defined in accordance with Article 3(1) and identified in 
accordance with section 2 in this Annex. A substance is always manufactured 
or imported in at least one form. A substance can also occur in more than one 
form. 
For all nanoforms covered by the registration certain specific information items 
shall be provided. Nanoforms shall be characterised as provided for in this 
Annex. The registrant shall justify why the information provided in the joint 
registration, covering the information requirements for the registered substances 
with nanoforms, is adequate for assessing the nanoforms. Information relevant to 
cover information requirements for such a substance can also be submitted 
separately by individual registrants, where justified in accordance with 
Article 11(3). 
More than one dataset may be required for one or more information requirements 
whenever there are significant differences in the properties relevant for the 
hazard, exposure and risk assessment and management of nanoforms. The 
information shall be reported in such a manner that it is clear which information 
in the joint submission pertains to which nanoform of the substance. 
Where technically and scientifically justified, the methodologies set out in Annex 
XI.1.5 shall be used within a registration dossier when two or more forms of a 
substance are ‘grouped’ for the purposes of one, more or possibly all the 
information requirements. 
The requirements specific to nanoforms apply without prejudice to requirements 
applicable to other forms of a substance. 
Definition of a nanoform and a set of similar nanoforms: 
On the basis of the Commission Recommendation of 18 October 2011 on the 
definition of nanomaterial ( 1 ), a nanoform is a form of a natural or manufactured 
substance containing particles, in an unbound state or as an aggregate or as an 
agglomerate and where, for 50 % or more of the particles in the number size 
distribution, one or more external dimensions is in the size range 1 nm-100 nm, 
including also by derogation fullerenes, graphene flakes and single wall carbon 
nanotubes with one or more external dimensions below 1 nm. 
For this purpose, ‘particle’ means a minute piece of matter with defined physical 
boundaries; ‘agglomerate’ means a collection of weakly bound particles or 
aggregates where the resulting external surface area is similar to the sum of 
the surface areas of the individual components and ‘aggregate’ means a 
particle comprising of strongly bound or fused particles. 
▼C1 
( 1 ) OJ L 275, 20.10.2011, p. 38.

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 159 
A nanoform shall be characterised in accordance with section 2.4 below. A 
substance may have one or more different nanoforms, based on differences in 
the parameters in points 2.4.2 to 2.4.5. 
A ‘set of similar nanoforms’ is a group of nanoforms characterised in accordance 
with section 2.4 where the clearly defined boundaries in the parameters in the 
points 2.4.2 to 2.4.5 of the individual nanoforms within the set still allow to 
conclude that the hazard assessment, exposure assessment and risk assessment of 
these nanoforms can be performed jointly. A justification shall be provided to 
demonstrate that a variation within these boundaries does not affect the hazard 
assessment, exposure assessment and risk assessment of the similar nanoforms in 
the set. A nanoform can only belong to one set of similar nanoforms 
The term ‘nanoform’, when it is referred to in the other Annexes, shall refer to a 
nanoform or a set of similar nanoforms, when one has been defined, as defined 
in this Annex. 
STEP 1 — GATHER AND SHARE EXISTING INFORMATION 
The registrant should gather all existing available test data on the substance to be 
registered, this would include a literature search for relevant information on the 
substance. 
Wherever practicable, registrations should be submitted jointly, in accordance 
with Articles 11 or 19. This will enable test data to be shared, thereby 
avoiding unnecessary testing and reducing costs. The registrant should also 
collect all other available and relevant information on the substance including 
on all nanoforms of the substance that are covered by the registration, regardless 
whether testing for a given endpoint is required or not at the specific tonnage 
level. This should include information from alternative sources (e.g. from 
(Q)SARs, read-across from other substances, in vivo and in vitro testing, 
epidemiological data) which may assist in identifying the presence or absence 
of hazardous properties of the substance and which can in certain cases replace 
the results of animal tests. 
In addition, information on exposure, use and risk management measures in 
accordance with article 10 and this Annex should be collected. Considering all 
this information together, the registrant will be able to determine the need to 
generate further information. 
▼C1 
STEP 2 — CONSIDER INFORMATION NEEDS 
The registrant shall identify what information is required for the registration. 
First, the relevant Annex or Annexes to be followed shall be identified, 
according to tonnage. These Annexes set out the standard information require­
ments, but shall be considered in conjunction with Annex XI, which allows 
variation from the standard approach, where it can be justified. In particular, 
information on exposure, use and risk management measures shall be considered 
at this stage in order to determine the information needs for the substance. 
▼M51 
STEP 3 — IDENTIFY INFORMATION GAPS 
The registrant shall then compare the inf