nce to other sections of the safety data sheet with 
regard to compatible or incompatible materials. 
(q) D e s e n s i t i s e d e x p l o s i v e s 
The following information may be provided: 
(i) desensitising agent used, 
(ii) exothermic decomposition energy, 
(iii) corrected burning rate (A c ); 
(iv) explosive properties of the desensitised explosive in that 
state. 
9.2.2. 
Other safety characteristics 
Properties, safety characteristics and test results listed below may be 
useful to indicate as regards a substance or a mixture: 
(a) mechanical sensitivity; 
(b) self-accelerating polymerisation temperature; 
(c) formation of explosible dust/air mixtures; 
(d) acid/alkaline reserve; 
(e) evaporation rate; 
(f) miscibility; 
(g) conductivity; 
(h) corrosiveness; 
(i) gas group; 
(j) redox potential; 
(k) radical formation potential; 
(l) photocatalytic properties. 
Other physical and chemical parameters shall be indicated if their 
indication is relevant for the safe use of the substance or mixture. 
10. 
SECTION 10: Stability and reactivity 
This section of the safety data sheet shall describe the stability of the 
substance or mixture and the possibility of hazardous reactions 
occurring under certain conditions of use and also if released into 
the environment, including, where appropriate, a reference to the test 
methods used. If it is stated that a particular property does not apply 
or if information on a particular property is not available, the reasons 
shall be given. 
10.1. 
Reactivity 
10.1.1. 
The reactivity hazards of the substance or mixture shall be described. 
Specific test data shall be provided for the substance or mixture as a 
whole, where available. However, the information may also be based 
on general data for the class or family of substance or mixture if such 
data adequately represent the anticipated hazard of the substance or 
mixture. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 141 
10.1.2. 
If data for mixtures are not available, data on substances in the 
mixture shall be provided. In determining incompatibility, the 
substances, containers and contaminants that the substance or 
mixture might be exposed to during transportation, storage and use 
shall be considered. 
10.2. 
Chemical stability 
It shall be indicated if the substance or mixture is stable or unstable 
under normal ambient and anticipated storage and handling conditions 
of temperature and pressure. Any stabilisers which are, or may need 
to be, used to maintain the chemical stability of the substance or 
mixture shall be described. The safety significance of any change 
in the physical appearance of the substance or mixture shall be indi­
cated. As regards desensitised explosives, information on the shelf life 
and instructions on how to verify desensitisation shall be provided, 
and it shall be indicated that removal of the desensitising agent will 
turn the product into an explosive. 
10.3. 
Possibility of hazardous reactions 
If relevant, it shall be stated if the substance or mixture may react or 
polymerise, releasing excess pressure or heat, or creating other 
hazardous conditions. The conditions under which the hazardous 
reactions may occur shall be described. 
10.4. 
Conditions to avoid 
Conditions such as temperature, pressure, light, shock, static 
discharge, vibrations or other physical stresses that might result in a 
hazardous situation shall be listed (‘conditions to avoid’) and if 
appropriate a brief description of measures to be taken to manage 
risks associated with such hazards shall be given. As regards desen­
sitised explosives, information on measures to be taken in order to 
avoid the unintentional removal of the desensitising agent shall be 
provided, and conditions to avoid shall be listed if the substance or 
mixture is not sufficiently desensitised. 
10.5. 
Incompatible materials 
Families of substances or mixtures or specific substances, such as 
water, air, acids, bases, oxidising agents, with which the substance 
or mixture could react to produce a hazardous situation (like an 
explosion, a release of toxic or flammable materials, or a liberation 
of excessive heat), shall be listed and if appropriate a brief description 
of measures to be taken to manage risks associated with such hazards 
shall be given. 
10.6. 
Hazardous decomposition products 
Known and reasonably anticipated hazardous decomposition products 
produced as a result of use, storage, spill and heating shall be listed. 
Hazardous combustion products shall be included in section 5 of the 
safety data sheet. 
11. 
SECTION 11: Toxicological information 
This section of the safety data sheet is meant for use primarily by 
medical professionals, occupational health and safety professionals 
and toxicologists. A concise but complete and comprehensible 
description of the various toxicological (health) effects and the 
available data used to identify those effects shall be provided, 
including 
where 
appropriate 
information 
on 
toxicokinetics, 
metabolism and distribution. The information in this section shall 
be consistent with the information provided in the registration 
and/or in the chemical safety report where required, and with the 
classification of the substance or mixture. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 142 
11.1. 
Information on hazard classes as defined in Regulation (EC) No 
1272/2008 
The relevant hazard classes, for which information shall be provided, 
are: 
(a) acute toxicity; 
(b) skin corrosion/irritation; 
(c) serious eye damage/irritation; 
(d) respiratory or skin sensitisation; 
(e) germ cell mutagenicity; 
(f) carcinogenicity; 
(g) reproductive toxicity; 
(h) STOT-single exposure; 
(i) STOT-repeated exposure; 
(j) aspiration hazard. 
These hazards shall always be listed on the safety data sheet. 
For substances subject to registration, brief summaries of the 
information derived from the application of Annexes VII to XI 
shall be given, including, where appropriate, a reference to the test 
methods used. For substances subject to registration, the information 
shall also include the result of the comparison of the available data 
with the criteria given in Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 for CMR, 
categories 1A and 1B, following point 1.3.1 of Annex I to this 
Regulation. 
11.1.1. 
Information shall be provided for each hazard class or differentiation. 
If it is stated that the substance or mixture is not classified for a 
particular hazard class or differentiation, the safety data sheet shall 
clearly state whether this is due to lack of data, technical impossibility 
to obtain the data, inconclusive data or data which are conclusive 
although insufficient for classification; in the latter case the safety 
data sheet shall specify ‘based on available data, the classification 
criteria are not met’. 
11.1.2. 
The data included in this subsection shall apply to the substance or 
mixture as placed on the market. In the case of a mixture, the data 
should describe the toxicological properties of the mixture as a whole, 
except if Article 6(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 applies. If 
available, the relevant toxicological properties of the hazardous 
substances in a mixture shall also be provided, such as the LD50, 
acute toxicity estimates or LC50. 
11.1.3. 
Where there is a substantial amount of test data on the substance or 
mixture, it may be necessary to summarise results of the critical 
studies used, for example, by route of exposure. 
11.1.4. 
Where the classification criteria for a particular hazard class are not 
met, information supporting this conclusion shall be provided. 
11.1.5. 
Information on likely routes of exposure 
Information shall be provided on likely routes of exposure and the 
effects of the substance or mixture via each possible route of 
exposure, that is, through ingestion (swallowing), inhalation or 
skin/eye exposure. If health effects are not known, this shall be stated. 
▼M58

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 143 
11.1.6. 
Symptoms related to the physical, chemical and toxicological charac­
teristics 
Potential adverse health effects and symptoms associated with 
exposure to the substance or mixture and its ingredients or known 
by-products shall be described. Available information shall be 
provided on the symptoms related to the physical, chemical, and 
toxicological characteristics of the substance or mixture following 
exposure. The first symptoms at low exposures through to the 
consequences of severe exposure shall be described, such as 
‘headaches and dizziness may occur, proceeding to fainting or uncon­
sciousness; large doses may result in coma and death’. 
11.1.7. 
Delayed and immediate effects as well as chronic effects from short 
and long-term exposure 
Information shall be provided on whether delayed or immediate 
effects can be expected after short- or long-term exposure. 
Information on acute and chronic health effects relating to human 
exposure to the substance or mixture shall also be provided. Where 
human data are not available, information on the experimental data 
shall be summarised, with details on either animal data and the 
species clearly identified or the in vitro tests and the cell types 
clearly identified. It shall be indicated whether toxicological data is 
based on human or animal data or on in vitro tests. 
11.1.8. 
Interactive effects 
Information on interactions shall be included if relevant and available. 
11.1.9. 
Absence of specific data 
It may not always be possible to obtain information on the hazards of 
a substance or mixture. In cases where data on the specific substance 
or mixture are not available, data on similar substances or mixtures, if 
appropriate, may be used, provided the relevant similar substance or 
mixture is identified. Where specific data are not used, or where data 
are not available, this shall be clearly stated. 
11.1.10. 
Mixtures 
For a given health effect, if a 