technical resources available to the Member States. To 
this end, Member States shall provide adequate scientific and technical 
resources to the members of the Committees that they have nominated. 
Each Member State competent authority shall facilitate the activities of 
the Committees and their working groups. 
7. 
The Member States shall refrain from giving the members of the 
Committee for Risk Assessment or of the Committee for Socio- 
Economic Analysis, or their scientific and technical advisers and 
experts, any instruction which is incompatible with the individual 
tasks of those persons or with the tasks, responsibilities and inde­
pendence of the Agency. 
8. 
When preparing an opinion, each Committee shall use its best 
endeavours to reach a consensus. If such a consensus cannot be 
reached, the opinion shall consist of the position of the majority of 
members, including their grounds. The minority position(s), including 
their grounds, shall also be published. 
9. 
Each Committee shall draft a proposal for its own rules of 
procedure, to be approved by the Management Board, within six 
months of the Committees first being appointed. 
These rules shall in particular lay down the procedures for replacing 
members, the procedures for delegating certain tasks to working groups, 
the creation of working groups and the establishment of a procedure for 
the urgent adoption of opinions. The Chairman of each Committee shall 
be an employee of the Agency. 
Article 86 
Establishment of the Forum 
1. 
Each Member State shall appoint, for a three-year term, which 
shall be renewable, one member to the Forum. Members shall be 
chosen for their role and experience in enforcement of chemicals legis­
lation and shall maintain relevant contacts with the Member State 
competent authorities. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 81 
The Forum shall aim to have a broad range of relevant expertise among 
its members. To this end the Forum may co-opt a maximum of five 
additional members chosen on the basis of their specific competence. 
These members shall be appointed for a term of three years, which shall 
be renewable. Members of the Management Board may not be members 
of the Forum. 
The members of the Forum may be accompanied by scientific and 
technical advisers. 
The Executive Director of the Agency or his representative and repre­
sentatives of the Commission shall be entitled to attend all the meetings 
of the Forum and its working groups. Stakeholders may also be invited 
to attend meetings as observers, as appropriate, at the request of Forum 
members, or the Management Board. 
2. 
The members of the Forum appointed by a Member State shall 
ensure that there is appropriate coordination between the tasks of the 
Forum and the work of their Member State competent authority. 
3. 
The members of the Forum shall be supported by the scientific 
and technical resources available to the competent authorities of the 
Member States. Each Member State competent authority shall facilitate 
the activities of the Forum and its working groups. The Member States 
shall refrain from giving the Forum members, or their scientific and 
technical advisers and experts any instruction which is incompatible 
with the individual tasks of those persons or with the tasks and respon­
sibilities of the Forum. 
4. 
The Forum shall draft a proposal for its own rules of procedure, to 
be adopted by the Management Board, within six months of the Forum 
first being appointed. 
These rules shall in particular lay down the procedures for appointing 
and replacing the Chairman, replacing members and the procedures for 
delegating certain tasks to working groups. 
Article 87 
Rapporteurs of Committees and use of experts 
1. 
Where, in accordance with Article 77, a Committee is required to 
provide an opinion or consider whether a Member State dossier 
conforms with the requirements of Annex XV, it shall appoint one of 
its members as a rapporteur. The Committee concerned may appoint a 
second member to act as co-rapporteur. For each case, rapporteurs and 
co-rapporteurs shall undertake to act in the interests of the Community 
and shall make a declaration of commitment to fulfil their duties and a 
declaration of interests in writing. A member of a Committee shall not 
be appointed rapporteur for a particular case if he indicates any interest 
that might be prejudicial to the independent consideration of that case. 
The Committee concerned may replace the rapporteur or co-rapporteur 
by another one of its members at any time, if, for example, they are 
unable to fulfil their duties within the prescribed time limits, or if a 
potentially prejudicial interest comes to light. 
2. 
Member States shall transmit to the Agency the names of experts 
with proven experience in the tasks required by Article 77, who would 
be available to serve on working groups of the Committees, together 
with an indication of their qualifications and specific areas of expertise. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 82 
The Agency shall keep an up-to-date list of experts. The list shall 
include the experts referred to in the first subparagraph and other 
experts identified directly by the Secretariat. 
3. 
The provision of services by Committee members or any expert 
serving on a working group of the Committees or Forum, or performing 
any other task for the Agency shall be governed by a written contract 
between the Agency and the person concerned, or where appropriate 
between the Agency and the employer of the person concerned. 
The person concerned, or his employer, shall be remunerated by the 
Agency in accordance with a scale of fees to be included in the 
financial arrangements established by the Management Board. Where 
the person concerned fails to fulfil his duties, the Executive Director has 
the right to terminate or suspend the contract or withhold remuneration. 
4. 
The provision of services for which there are several potential 
providers may require a call for an expression of interest: 
(a) if the scientific and technical context allows; and 
(b) if it is compatible with the duties of the Agency, in particular the 
need to provide a high level of protection of human health and the 
environment. 
The Management Board shall adopt the appropriate procedures on a 
proposal from the Executive Director. 
5. 
The Agency may use the services of experts for the discharge of 
other specific tasks for which it is responsible. 
Article 88 
Qualification and interests 
1. 
The membership of the Committees and of the Forum shall be 
made public. Individual members may request that their names not be 
made public if they believe that such publication could place them at 
risk. The Executive Director shall decide whether to agree to such 
requests. When each appointment is published, the professional qualifi­
cations of each member shall be specified. 
2. 
Members of the Management Board, the Executive Director and 
members of the Committees and of the Forum shall make a declaration 
of commitment to fulfil their duties and a declaration of interests which 
could be considered to be prejudicial to their independence. These 
declarations shall be made annually in writing and, without prejudice 
to paragraph 1, be entered in a register held by the Agency which is 
accessible to the public, on request, at the Agency's offices. 
3. 
At each of their meetings, members of the Management Board, the 
Executive Director, members of the Committees and of the Forum and 
any experts participating in the meeting shall declare any interests which 
could be considered to be prejudicial to their independence with respect 
to any points on the agenda. Anyone declaring such interests shall not 
participate in any voting on the relevant agenda point. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 83 
Article 89 
Establishment of the Board of Appeal 
1. 
The Board of Appeal shall consist of a Chairman and two other 
members. 
2. 
The Chairman and the two members shall have alternates who 
shall represent them in their absence. 
3. 
The Chairman, the other members and the alternates shall be 
appointed by the Management Board on the basis of a list of candidates 
proposed by the Commission following a call for expressions of interest 
published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in other 
periodicals or on Internet sites. They shall be appointed on the basis of 
their relevant experience and expertise in the field of chemical safety, 
natural sciences or regulatory and judicial procedures from a list of 
qualified candidates adopted by the Commission. 
The Management Board may appoint additional members and their 
alternates, on recommendation by the Executive Director, following 
the same procedure, if this is necessary to ensure that the appeals can 
be processed at a satisfactory rate. 
4. 
The qualifications required for the members of the Board of 
Appeal shall be determined by the Commission in accordance with 
the procedure referred to in Article 133(3). 
5. 
The Chairman and the members shall have equal voting rights. 
Article 90 
Members of the Board of Appeal 
1. 
The term of office of the members of the Board of Appeal, 
including the Chairman and the alternates shall be five years. It may 
be prolonged once. 
2. 
The members of the Board of Appeal shall be independent. In 
making their decisions they shall not be bound by any instructions. 
3. 
The members of the Board of Appeal may not perform any other 
duties in the Agency. 
4. 
The members of the Board of Appeal may not be removed either 
from office or from the list during their respective terms, unless there 
are serious grounds for such removal and the Commission, after 
obtaining the opinion of the Management Board, takes a decision to 
this effect. 
5. 
Members of the Board of Appeal may not take part in any appeal 
proceedings if they have any personal interest therein, or if they