21, 22 and 25 to 28 shall not apply to uses of substances 
regarded as registered according to Article 15. 
CHAPTER 3 
Obligation to register and information requirements for certain types 
of isolated intermediates 
Article 17 
Registration of on-site isolated intermediates 
1. 
Any manufacturer of an on-site isolated intermediate in quantities 
of one tonne or more per year shall submit a registration to the Agency 
for the on-site isolated intermediate. 
2. 
A registration for an on-site isolated intermediate shall include all 
the following information, to the extent that the manufacturer is able to 
submit it without any additional testing: 
(a) the identity of the manufacturer as specified in Section 1 of Annex 
VI; 
(b) the identity of the intermediate as specified in Sections 2.1 to 2.3.4 
of Annex VI; 
(c) the classification of the intermediate as specified in Section 4 of 
Annex VI; 
(d) any available existing information on physicochemical, human 
health or environmental properties of the intermediate. Where a 
full study report is available, a study summary shall be submitted; 
(e) a brief general description of the use, as specified in Section 3.5 of 
Annex VI; 
(f) details of the risk management measures applied. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 27 
Except in cases covered under Article 25(3), Article 27(6) or 
Article 30(3), the registrant shall be in legitimate possession of or 
have permission to refer to the full study report summarised under (d) 
for the purpose of registration. 
The registration shall be accompanied by the fee required in accordance 
with Title IX. 
3. 
Paragraph 2 shall apply only to on-site isolated intermediates if the 
manufacturer confirms that the substance is only manufactured and used 
under strictly controlled conditions in that it is rigorously contained by 
technical means during its whole lifecycle. Control and procedural tech­
nologies shall be used to minimise emission and any resulting exposure. 
If these conditions are not fulfilled, the registration shall include the 
information specified in Article 10. 
Article 18 
Registration of transported isolated intermediates 
1. 
Any manufacturer or importer of a transported isolated inter­
mediate in quantities of one tonne or more per year shall submit a 
registration to the Agency for the transported isolated intermediate. 
2. 
A registration for a transported isolated intermediate shall include 
all the following information: 
(a) the identity of the manufacturer or importer as specified in Section 1 
of Annex VI; 
(b) the identity of the intermediate as specified in Sections 2.1 to 2.3.4 
of Annex VI; 
(c) the classification of the intermediate as specified in Section 4 of 
Annex VI; 
(d) any available existing information on physicochemical, human 
health or environmental properties of the intermediate. Where a 
full study report is available, a study summary shall be submitted; 
(e) a brief general description of the use, as specified in Section 3.5 of 
Annex VI; 
(f) information on risk management measures applied and recom­
mended to the user in accordance with paragraph 4. 
Except in cases covered under Article 25(3), Article 27(6) or 
Article 30(3), the registrant shall be in legitimate possession of or 
have permission to refer to the full study report summarised under (d) 
for the purpose of registration. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 28 
The registration shall be accompanied by the fee required in accordance 
with Title IX. 
3. 
A registration for a transported isolated intermediate in quantities 
of more than 1 000 tonnes per year per manufacturer or importer shall 
include the information specified in Annex VII in addition to the 
information required under paragraph 2. 
For the generation of this information, Article 13 shall apply. 
4. 
Paragraphs 2 and 3 shall apply only to transported isolated inter­
mediates if the manufacturer or importer confirms himself or states that 
he has received confirmation from the user that the synthesis of 
(an)other substance(s) from that intermediate takes place on other sites 
under the following strictly controlled conditions: 
(a) the substance is rigorously contained by technical means during its 
whole lifecycle including manufacture, purification, cleaning and 
maintenance of equipment, sampling, analysis, loading and 
unloading of equipment or vessels, waste disposal or purification 
and storage; 
(b) procedural and control technologies shall be used that minimise 
emission and any resulting exposure; 
(c) only properly trained and authorised personnel handle the substance; 
(d) in the case of cleaning and maintenance works, special procedures 
such as purging and washing are applied before the system is 
opened and entered; 
(e) in cases of accident and where waste is generated, procedural and/or 
control technologies are used to minimise emissions and the 
resulting exposure during purification or cleaning and maintenance 
procedures; 
(f) substance-handling procedures are well documented and strictly 
supervised by the site operator. 
If the conditions listed in the first subparagraph are not fulfilled, the 
registration shall include the information specified in Article 10. 
Article 19 
Joint submission of data on isolated intermediates by multiple 
registrants 
1. 
When an on-site isolated intermediate or transported isolated inter­
mediate is intended to be manufactured in the Community by one or 
more manufacturers and/or imported by one or more importers, the 
following shall apply. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 29 
Subject to paragraph 2 of this Article, the information specified in 
Article 17(2)(c) and (d) and Article 18(2)(c) and (d) shall first be 
submitted by one manufacturer or importer acting with the agreement 
of the other assenting manufacturer(s) or importer(s) (hereinafter 
referred to as ‘the lead registrant’). 
Each registrant shall subsequently submit separately the information 
specified in Article 17(2)(a), (b), (e) and (f) and Article 18(2)(a),(b), 
(e) and (f). 
2. 
A manufacturer or importer may submit the information referred to 
in Article 17(2)(c) or (d) and Article 18(2)(c) or (d) separately if: 
(a) it would be disproportionately costly for him to submit this jointly; 
or 
(b) submitting the information jointly would lead to disclosure of 
information which he considers to be commercially sensitive and 
is likely to cause him substantial commercial detriment; or 
(c) he disagrees with the lead registrant on the selection of this 
information. 
If points (a), (b) or (c) apply, the manufacturer or importer shall submit, 
along with the dossier, an explanation as to why the costs would be 
disproportionate, why disclosure of information was likely to lead to 
substantial commercial detriment, or the nature of the disagreement, as 
the case may be. 
3. 
A submission for registration shall be accompanied by the fee 
required in accordance with Title IX. 
CHAPTER 4 
Common provisions for all registrations 
Article 20 
Duties of the Agency 
1. 
The Agency shall assign a submission number to each registration, 
which is to be used for all correspondence regarding the registration 
until the registration is deemed to be complete, and a submission date, 
which shall be the date of receipt of the registration at the Agency. 
2. 
The Agency shall undertake a completeness check of each regis­
tration in order to ascertain that all the elements required under Articles 
10 and 12 or under Articles 17 or 18, as well as the registration fee 
referred to in Article 6(4), Article 7(1) and (5), Article 17(2) or 
Article 18(2), have been provided. The completeness check shall not 
include an assessment of the quality or the adequacy of any data or 
justifications submitted. 
The Agency shall undertake the completeness check within three weeks 
of the submission date, or within three months of the relevant deadline 
of Article 23, as regards registrations of phase-in substances submitted 
in the course of the two-month period immediately preceding that 
deadline. 
▼C1

 
02006R1907 — EN — 17.12.2022 — 056.001 — 30 
If a registration is incomplete, the Agency shall inform the registrant, 
before expiry of the three-week or three-month period referred to in the 
second subparagraph, as to what further information is required in order 
for the registration to be complete, while setting a reasonable deadline 
for this. The registrant shall complete his registration and submit it to 
the Agency within the deadline set. The Agency shall confirm the 
submission date of the further information to the registrant. The 
Agency shall perform a further completeness check, considering the 
further information submitted. 
The Agency shall reject the registration if the registrant fails to complete 
his registration within the deadline set. The registration fee shall not be 
reimbursed in such cases. 
3. 
Once the registration is complete, the Agency shall assign a regis­
tration number to the substance concerned and a registration date, which 
shall be the same as the submission date. The Agency shall without 
delay communicate the registration number and registration date to the 
registrant concerned. The registration number shall be used for all 
subsequent correspondence regarding registration. 
4. 
The Agency shall notify the competent authority of the relevant 
Member State within 30 days of the submission date, that the following 
information is available in the Agency database: 
(a) the registration dossier together with the submission or registration 
number; 
(b) the submission or registration date; 
(c) the result of the completeness check; and 
(d) any request for further information and deadline set in accordance 
with the third subparagraph of paragraph 2. 
The relevant Member State shall be the Member State within which the 
manufacture takes place or the importer is established. 
If the ma